Title: Vis A Vis
Stardate: 51762.4
Original Airdate: April 8, 1998


[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]

PARIS: Ow! Ow! What do you think you're doing, Doc?
EMH: An impromptu auditory exam
PARIS: Did I pass?
EMH: With flying colours, which leads me to believe you did hear me when
I requested you meet me this morning.
PARIS: You're right. I forgot.
EMH: I see. I realise your Sickbay training is purely voluntary, but you
haven't spent any time there in several weeks, and when I try to find
you, you're always in the holodeck.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Doc, but we haven't been treating
anything more serious than an ingrown toenail.
EMH: That's beside the point. If an emergency were to happen you must be
prepared. You're too far behind in your medical texts to waste your time
in the holodeck!
PARIS: If it's any consolation I have spent most of the morning immersed
in a complicated surgical procedure.
EMH: Really.
PARIS: A classic case of atrophied shocks. They needed to be extracted to
prevent chrome abrasion. It was touch and go for a while, but the
prognosis is excellent.
EMH: You'll be ready for neurosurgery in no time.
PARIS: Take a look at this, Doc! This is a fully stock 1969 Chevy Camaro,
one of the earliest muscle cars ever made. Imagine, Northern California,
late twentieth century. You're cruising up Highway One, the woofers are
pounding, the wind is whipping through your hair.
EMH: Medieval safety constraints, internal combustion system producing
lethal levels of carbon monoxide. I stand corrected. This may be just
what you need to get you back to Sickbay.
PARIS: I guess I should have known this wouldn't interest you. It's too
much fun.
EMH: This isn't about fun, Mister Paris. Serving in Sickbay is a
privilege. I'd expect you to realise that.
PARIS: Oh, I do. I'll be there. Soon.
JANEWAY [OC]: Lieutenant Paris, report to the Bridge immediately.
PARIS: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Somebody call for a driver?
JANEWAY: Take your station, Tom. Anything on scans, Harry?
KIM: I'm picking up another spatial disturbance two thousand kilometres
away.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I have no idea. It looks like space is folding in on itself.
JANEWAY: Shields to full.
KIM: It's an alien vessel, one occupant aboard.
PARIS: Captain, it looks like that ship is being powered by a coaxial
warp drive.
CHAKOTAY: Coaxial what?
PARIS: It's a hypothetical propulsion system. Starfleet engineers have
been dreaming about it for years. In theory, it can literally fold the
fabric of space allowing a ship to travel instantaneously across huge
distances.
TUVOK: The alien warp drive is overloading.
PARIS: In theory, a coaxial drive explosion could collapse space within a
radius of a billion kilometres. In theory.
JANEWAY: Let's keep theory from becoming reality. Red alert!
CHAKOTAY: Scan the vessel. Can we beam the pilot out?
KIM: Too much interference.
PARIS: The ship's about had it, Captain. The coaxial core is breaching.
TUVOK: We should vacant this area of space at once.
PARIS: We can't just leave him like this.
JANEWAY: Try one more hail.
KIM: Nothing. Maybe he's ignoring us.
PARIS: Or maybe he's unconscious. We've got to do something.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
PARIS: Symmetric warp field. That should contain any instabilities in his
space folding core.
CHAKOTAY: How can you be sure?
PARIS: Advanced subspace geometry, It's the one course at the academy
where I actually paid attention. We'll tractor him in to kill his
momentum, generate a warp field around his ship.
TUVOK: His flightpath is erratic. We'd be risking collision.
PARIS: Captain, I can make this work.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Passing through the residual folds in space. Steady. Got him!
TUVOK: I've extended our warp field around his vessel. His core is
powering down.
JANEWAY: Nice flying, Tom.
PARIS: My pleasure.
KIM: We're finally receiving a hail.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway, of the Federation Starship Voyager. Do you need
medical attention?
STETH [on viewscreen]: I'm fine, Captain. Unfortunately my ship is not.
JANEWAY: If you need to make repairs, we might be able to help.
STETH [on viewscreen]: That's very generous.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you aboard in a few minutes. Stand by.
STETH [on viewscreen]: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Transporter room]

JANEWAY: Energise. Welcome.
STETH: Captain, I know you put yourselves in danger to rescue me. I want
to thank you.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we could help.
STETH: I was so eager to test my new engine I pushed it beyond it's
limits.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Coaxial warp doesn't seem to be the smoothest way to travel.
STETH: It's a violent procedure, but it allows a ship to travel through
space at incredible speeds.
TUVOK: Considering the dangers, this method of travel hardly seems
logical.
STETH: That's probably true, but if I were worrying about danger I
wouldn't have become a test pilot.
JANEWAY: Where are you from?
STETH: The fourth planet of the Benthan system. That's about twenty light
years from here.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to my engineers about helping you with repairs.
Without your coaxial drive it's a long way home.

[Chakotay's Office]

CHAKOTAY: Come in.
PARIS: I'd like to ask you a favour. I need a change of pace. I'd like to
help Steth repair his ship.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a good time to ask.
PARIS: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've been reading a report from the Doctor. You didn't show up
today.
PARIS: I was a little busy this morning. Saving someone's life, as I
recall.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something wrong, Tom? Anything bothering you?
PARIS: Nothing is wrong. Since when is not wanting to spend time with the
Doctor a capital offence? You'd have to throw the whole crew in the brig
for that one.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. I was wondering if there's something on your mind.
You're showing up for your duty shifts, you do what's required, but your
heart doesn't seem to be in it. You seem preoccupied.
PARIS: Like I said, I think I need a change of pace.
CHAKOTAY: You're a different man from the one that came on board four
years ago. You've taken charge of your life, turned yourself around. I'd
hate to see you ruin it.
PARIS: I won't. With your permission, I'll report to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Permission denied. Report to Steth's ship instead. Assist in
the repairs. We need our best man on the job.

[Steth's ship]

STETH: And on my way back, I made the mistake of flying the prototype
through restricted Entaben territory.
PARIS: And?
STETH: And the Entabens weren't too pleased to see me. I limped back to
the engineers on Benthos with phaser holes through their brand new
extanium fuselage. I think they would have been happy to see phaser holes
through me.
PARIS: When I was sixteen, I followed an ancient human custom. I took my
father's shuttle out for a joy-ride, proceeded to fry all the relays.
STETH: I'm guessing he wasn't happy about getting it back.
PARIS: Actually he didn't. As far as I know, it's still at the bottom of
Lake Tahoe.
STETH: Here it is, the coaxial induction drive. It draws in subatomic
particles and reconfigures their internal geometries.
PARIS: This is what makes folding space possible?
STETH: At least in spurts. Unfortunately, particle instabilities keep
overloading my engines but I'm going to make it work. I have to keep in
motion. I don't like the thought of settling down. Too many new ships to
drive, too many intriguing women.
PARIS: Yeah, I guess so.
STETH: When I get this ship back I'm going to be doing the first test on
a new Mithran class flyer. I'm told it's more advanced than any warship
in the quadrant. Why don't you come with me? We'd have a great time. You
could meet up with Voyager afterwards.
PARIS: I'd love to do that. It sounds very exciting, but I have
responsibilities here. People who count on me. And B'Elanna would be
furious. B'Elanna. I have to go.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: So, you started without me.
TORRES: I finished without you. You're a little late.
PARIS: Sorry. I was helping Steth repair his ship.
TORRES: How's it going?
PARIS: Pretty slow. We're both stuck on how to prevent the particle
overloads in his propulsion system.
TORRES: Have you tried an isokinetic containment field?
PARIS: Yeah, that's the first thing we tried.
TORRES: How long do you think repairs are going to take?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: I was just hoping that maybe you could help me recalibrate the
plasma manifolds tonight.
PARIS: I, er, I probably should go help Steth.
TORRES: Tom, is there something wrong?
PARIS: Why are you interrogating me?
TORRES: I didn't think I was.
PARIS: It sounds more like you want me to account for every minute that
I'm not with you.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
PARIS: Can't I have some time to myself? Can't I do what I want without
having to report every detail of it to you?
TORRES: Tom, you can do whatever you want. I just wanted to know if there
was something wrong. I mean, lately you've been cancelling dates, you
hide out for hours in the holodeck.
PARIS: I am not hiding anything. That is ridiculous.
TORRES: Is it? You haven't even told me what holodeck programme this is
that has you so fascinated.
PARIS: The Dancing Girls of Ninipia Prime. It's very entertaining,
TORRES: Very funny.
PARIS: You're over-reacting.
TORRES: I am not over-reacting. There's obviously something going on and
you're refusing to admit it.
NEELIX: Good evening, Lieutenants. I see you don't have your dinner yet,
Tom. Can I get you something?
PARIS: I'm really not hungry.
TORRES: Excuse me. Are you going to talk about this? Because if you're
not, I don't want to sit here anymore.
PARIS: If you can carry on an adult conversation without all the
histrionics.
TORRES: Good night, Tom.

[Steth's ship]

STETH: Computer, run a DNA stability analysis. How long before my genome
reverts to it's previous form?
COMPUTER: Time to reversion three hours thirteen minutes. Complete genome
recovery is imminent.

[Corridor]

PARIS: So I was lying in bed last night when it hit me. What you need is
a carburettor.
STETH: A carburettor?
PARIS: Yes. It's a device that's hundreds of years old. I can't believe I
didn't think of it yesterday.
STETH: Wait. Hundreds of years old? Surely that couldn't be of any use to
us now.
PARIS: It all goes back to basics. You would be surprised at how often I
find solutions to twenty fourth century problems in twentieth century
technology. Computer, access Paris programme alpha one, Grease Monkey.
STETH: Grease Monkey?
PARIS: Mechanic lingo.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]

PARIS: A car's engine can't run on pure fuel, so the carburettor supplies
it with a mixture of vaporised fuel and air.
STETH: And you think we need a device like that to dilute the particle
stream as it enters the coaxial drive.
PARIS: Exactly! And a spare polaric modulator from Voyager's impulse
drive should do the trick.
STETH: Subatomic dilution! It never would have occurred to me. I think
you've solved it.
PARIS: Well, we can run a few simulations on the Holodeck before we
actually try it.
STETH: I owe you a lot.
PARIS: You can thank my lucky toolbox. It's gotten me out of hot water
more than once.
STETH: You're lucky to be stationed on a ship like this. Replicators to
feed and clothe you, holo-technology to cater to every whim. Hallways
filled with women.
PARIS: Yeah. It's great.
STETH: You don't sound convinced. Aren't you happy here?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. I'm very happy. I mean, I pilot one of the
most advanced ships in Starfleet, I have a beautiful girlfriend, I'm
respected. I have everything that I've ever wanted.
STETH: You're lucky, You're part of a family, part of a structure. You
have rules to guide you. You don't have to worry about making a lot of
choices. I usually go to bed at night not knowing what the next day has
in store, what trouble I might get into. You don't have to worry about
those things. You're very settled.
PARIS: I remember those days, I used to be a lot like you, going
anywhere, doing whatever I wanted, making my own rules.
STETH: Well, then there's hope for me yet, Maybe someday I'll settle down
too, but for now I prefer to stay on the move.
PARIS: Sometimes I wish that's what I was doing.
STETH: Things'll turn around for you. I've always found that change is
inevitable. It comes when you least expect it.
PARIS: Yeah, I suppose.
STETH: Now, are we ready to try this carburettor idea on my ship?
PARIS: Just give me five more minutes to finish up here and I'll be right
with you.
STETH: Five minutes. And Tom, don't dismiss the suggestion I made about
coming with me to fly the new ship. It might be fun to escape the
shackles for a while.

[Cargo Bay two]

STETH: Computer, access all files pertaining to Lieutenant Tom Paris.
Download into memory core alpha.
COMPUTER: Please enter authorisation code. Access granted. Commencing
download.
STETH: Hello. I'm Steth, a guest of your Captain.
SEVEN: I've been appraised of your presence on Voyager. You are not
authorised to access the ship's computers.
STETH: You must be Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: That is correct.
STETH: Tom mentioned you. He thinks you're extremely intelligent.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris's opinion of me is irrelevant to your being in
this room.
STETH: Well, er, Tom felt we needed some files for polaric modulators,
but he was called away before we could access them. I thought I'd find
them myself and help out.
SEVEN: You were mistaken. He must be present to download these files.
STETH: Oh, I'm about to meet him at the holodeck. We can find the files
there.
SEVEN: Voyager's hierarchy is complex. See that you familiarise yourself
with it.
STETH: Good advice. I'll do that.

Captain's log, Stardate 51762.4. The repairs to Steth's coaxial drive
have been completed well ahead of schedule.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS: Everything here looks good. Just give me one more second to check
the flow field parameters.
STETH: Go ahead.
PARIS: It's my box wrench. Been looking all over for this.
STETH: I know I should have asked you, Tom, but I needed it for an
experiment.
PARIS: To check your new carburettor?
STETH: Not quite. You're the first humans I've met and that wrench had
enough cellular residue on it for me to check your DNA. I have good news.
We're compatible.
STETH as PARIS: Consider this a favour. I know how unhappy you've been
with this dreary, settled life so I'm taking it off your hands. I'm
betting there's still some fun to be had here. Voyager is a great ship,
Tom. I'll take good care of it.

[Bridge]

STETH as PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
JANEWAY: We were beginning to wonder if you were ever coming back.
KIM: His ship is powering engines.
JANEWAY: Something wrong, Tom?
STETH as PARIS: It's nothing. I'm just really going to miss that guy.

[Mess hall]

CHAKOTAY: Mind if I join you?
STETH as PARIS: Not at all. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay will do, Tom. Don't carry this rules thing too far.
I've been discussing your engineering report with the Captain. She was
wondering if we could implement some of Steth's technology here on
Voyager.
STETH as PARIS: Really.
CHAKOTAY: We thought maybe you could start on a shuttle. Do you think you
can do it?
STETH as PARIS: I'm sure I can.
CHAKOTAY: Great. You can start right after you finish with the Doctor.
STETH as PARIS: The Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: He needs your help in Sickbay. I told him you'd be there.
STETH as PARIS: Of course.

[Corridor]

CREWMAN: Lieutenant.
STETH as PARIS: Hi.
KIM: I know you've been avoiding the Doctor, but don't tell me you've
forgotten where Sickbay is.
STETH as PARIS: Oh, not yet. I was just trying to figure out if there's a
more efficient route between Sickbay and my quarters.
KIM: I didn't realise you were that eager to get there. So tell me, are
they ready yet?
STETH as PARIS: Ah, not yet. But they will be, soon.
KIM: Great. Hey, let me know if you have any problems. Polyduranide can
be tough to replicate.
STETH as PARIS: Oh, sure can be.
KIM: I can't wait to get my hands around one of those clubs. Ensign
Kaplan won't know what hit her.
STETH as PARIS: What?
KIM: We're going to play golf with her. We scheduled a rematch, remember?
STETH as PARIS: Oh, of course. I can't wait.
KIM: Have you been working on your putting? You missed both those
two-footers last time.
STETH as PARIS: I won't let it happen again.
KIM: All right. Give the Doc my best.
STETH as PARIS: I will. If I ever find him.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You're early, Mister Paris. I see some good came from my report to
Commander Chakotay. Let's put these extra few minutes to good use. Begin
with a thorough biobed diagnostic. I want you to recalibrate each
physio-sensor, making sure to enter each metabolic referent precisely.
STETH as PARIS: Okay.
EMH: When you're through with that, run a protein structure analysis and
then continue your review of the thirty seven steps of a cardio-pulmonary
reconstruction procedure. I'll leave you to your biobeds. Did you forget
to disengage the scan emitters?
STETH as PARIS: Sorry.
EMH: Mister Paris!
STETH as PARIS: I don't know what's wrong.
EMH: I realise it's complicated, but you must try again.
STETH as PARIS: Actually, I'm not feeling so well.
EMH: How fortunate you're already in Sickbay. I'll run a few scans.
STETH as PARIS: No, no, Doc, that's all right. To be perfectly honest
with you. This is so frustrating for me. I usually pick things up a lot
faster than this.
EMH: You're here to learn, Mister Paris. It will get easier with time.
STETH as PARIS: That's easy for you to say.
EMH: Excuse me?
STETH as PARIS: Well no offence, Doctor, but you were programmed to be a
medical genius. Things always come easy to you. Me, I'm just a pilot, a
grease monkey, and as hard as I might try to become a better assistant to
you, it's clear to me now that I'll never be half the healer that you are.
EMH: Do you mean to tell me you've been trying to live up to my standards?
STETH as PARIS: I'm afraid I have.
EMH: It all makes sense now. The misplaced aggression, the shirking of
responsibilities, all classic signs of an inferiority complex. I had no
idea my superior abilities were affecting your psyche so strongly. Take
the rest of the day off. Reflect on your strengths. Realise your worth.
STETH as PARIS: I'll do that, Doctor. Thank you.

[Torres' Quarters]

STETH as PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: What do you think you're doing?
STETH as PARIS: Putting.
TORRES: In my quarters?
STETH as PARIS: I can't putt in your quarters?
TORRES: No.
STETH as PARIS: Since when?
TORRES: Tom. What is this?
STETH as PARIS: That is a sand wedge. It's used for getting out of traps.
TORRES: Why is it here?
STETH as PARIS: I replicated it for you. I thought we could play a little
game of golf on the holodeck before dinner.
TORRES: So this is your idea of an adult conversation? I don't know what
you are trying to accomplish with this little stunt, but let me assure
you, it is not working. I am sorry if you are bored because Steth is gone
but that doesn't mean that you can just walk in here and pretend like you
haven't been shutting me out!
STETH as PARIS: You're being a little hard on Steth. If it wasn't for
him, I wouldn't be here right now.
TORRES: Really.
STETH as PARIS: I mentioned to him we were having some problems and he
urged me to come and talk to you. To try to work things out. To admit I
was wrong. I made a mistake, B'Elanna, and I'm sorry. I won't shut you
out anymore. In fact, I went to the Doctor and begged to be excused from
my duties. I realise it's only a few extra hours but they're hours I want
to spend with you.
TORRES: Steth turned out to be a positive influence on you.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS as STETH: Computer, wh... Computer, where are we?
COMPUTER: Navigation matrix one seven one one, the Kotaba expanse.
Coaxial leap complete.
PARIS as STETH: How far are we from Voyager? Computer, lock in Voyager's
last known co-ordinates and activate differential induction drive.
COMPUTER: Unable to execute command.
PARIS as STETH: Why not?
COMPUTER: The differential induction drive has been secured. The security
access code is required to implement the coaxial leap.
AVEK [OC]: This is Commander Avek of the Benthan Guard. We're taking you
into custody. Prepare to surrender the vessel to us at once.
PARIS as STETH: Benthan? I need a second to explain, Commander. I'm not
who you think
AVEK [OC]: We do not negotiate with thieves.
PARIS as STETH: No, you don't understand. I, I need the ship to get back
to Voyager.
AVEK [OC]: Surrender the vessel peacefully or we will use force.
PARIS as STETH: Why is everybody trying to shoot me today?
DAELEN: You know what I'm here for.
PARIS as STETH: I don't know what you're talking about. Who are you?
DAELEN: I'm Steth.
PARIS as STETH: What?
DAELEN: Look at me! You did wear this body for nearly a year before you
switched it with mine. That's my body you're in now. I want it back.
PARIS as STETH: Bear with me for a second. We have more in common than
you might think.

[Transporter room]

TORRES: This better be good, Tom. I left Vorik right in the middle of an
EPS recalibration.
STETH as PARIS: You can thank me later.
TORRES: So, what's my big surprise?
STETH as PARIS: What would you say to twenty four glorious hours on the
famed fourth planet of the Kendren system?
TORRES: You mean the planet where Neelix is gathering food samples?
STETH as PARIS: I ran a few scans and found the most incredible beach on
one of the smaller continents. I replicated a picnic lunch for us.
Voyager isn't leaving orbit until tomorrow, we'd have an entire day.
TORRES: Only a day? Oh, I think that we would need at least a week.
STETH as PARIS: I wish we could. We've only got a day.
TORRES: You're serious, aren't you.
STETH as PARIS: Completely.
TORRES: Do you know how much trouble we would be in?
STETH as PARIS: What could Janeway do, execute us?
TORRES: Tom, I am swamped. I can't get away for an hour, let alone twenty
four!
STETH as PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I have responsibilities here. We both do.
STETH as PARIS: Responsibilities? I don't care!
TORRES: Tom, you're hurting me.
STETH as PARIS: You're a real disappointment to me, do you know that? I
don't know what I ever saw in you.

[Mess hall]

STETH as PARIS: Seven, what brings you here at this hour?
SEVEN: We were supposed to meet in the shuttle bay at twenty one hundred
hours. Did you forget?
STETH as PARIS: I did. I got so caught up with my reading I guess it
slipped my mind. Sorry.
SEVEN: The capillaries in your eyes are swollen, Lieutenant, and I see
signs of vascular congestion in your cheeks. Are you intoxicated?
STETH as PARIS: No, not at all. I was just exploring the replicator,
trying some alien beverages. Only a few were alcoholic.
SEVEN: You are not officially off-duty for another seventy eight minutes.
STETH as PARIS: I'm on break. Would you like to join me? I could
replicate another Trakian ale for you.
SEVEN: That will not be necessary.
STETH as PARIS: Relax, Seven. You're not on the Borg Cube any more. We
could finish our work on the shuttle tomorrow.
SEVEN: That would be an inefficient use of our time. I will complete the
work myself.
STETH as PARIS: Fine.
SEVEN: Before I leave, I would like to know why you were reading the
Captain's personal logs.
STETH as PARIS: I wasn't.
SEVEN: I saw the PADD. It was unmistakably the Captain's logs.
STETH as PARIS: You're wrong. You're confused. You couldn't possibly have
seen anything.
SEVEN: You know I possess an eidetic memory. I require only seconds to
commit what I see to memory. Would you like me to quote the passage you
were reading?
STETH as PARIS: I'm warning you, stay out of my way! Don't interfere in
things that don't concern you. If you bother me again, I will make things
very unpleasant for you.
SEVEN: Remove your hand from my arm.
STETH as PARIS: Don't be foolish. You'll regret it.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Enter.
STETH as PARIS: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. I received a rather disturbing report from Seven of Nine
regarding your conduct last night. She claims you were drinking on duty.
STETH as PARIS: She's mistaken, Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't lie to me, Tom. I checked the computers. You replicated
five alcoholic beverages in the mess hall. She also said you threatened
her.
STETH as PARIS: I'm sorry, Captain. B'Elanna and I had an argument. I was
upset.
JANEWAY: And is that why you were reading my personal logs?
STETH as PARIS: I wasn't!
JANEWAY: Seven recited a passage which I'd written, word for word.
STETH as PARIS: She probably accessed those files herself. Captain, you
can't take the word of a Borg over mine!
JANEWAY: This has to stop, Tom. Your conduct lately has been bizarre, and
I've heard far too many complaints from far too many people to dismiss
it. Chakotay, the Doctor, Seven of Nine. They're all worried about you
and so am I.
STETH as PARIS: You're right, Captain. I need some rest. I'll go right to
my quarters.
JANEWAY: Tom, as your Captain and as your friend, I want you to report to
Sickbay for some tests. We have to find out if there's something physical
that's causing this behaviour.
STETH as PARIS: This is crazy. I don't need any help.
JANEWAY: That's an order.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY [OC]: Security, I need you in the ready room, now!

[Ready room]

TUVOK: Are you hurt, Captain?
STETH as JANEWAY: No. Take him to Sickbay. Keep security with him.

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: The coaxial drive will be online in a few minutes.
PARIS as STETH: Good. I've just about overridden all the lock-out
commands. No offence, but I'd like to get out of your body as soon as
possible.
DAELEN: The alien seems capable of some sort of selective DNA exchange.
He absorbs new DNA while depositing his current genetic material into his
victims. Let's hope he can reverse that process.
PARIS as STETH: That's the last lock-out command. We're set for coaxial
warp. Let's find Voyager.

Captain's Log: Supplemental. The doctor has treated Mister Paris' phaser
wounds but has been unable to wake him. The motive for his attack remains
a mystery.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Neurological scans yielded very little but I did find something very
interesting in his blood analysis. There are traces of a second DNA
pattern in his nucleotide structure. Possibly the result of a genetic
virus.
TUVOK: Could this be the cause of his recent behaviour?
EMH: I don't know, but I'm running more scans to see how this might have
affected his neurological functions.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, a vessel just emerged from coaxial space off our
starboard bow.
STETH as JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Bridge]

STETH as JANEWAY: Hail them.
PARIS as STETH [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway.
STETH as JANEWAY: Welcome back, Mister Steth.
PARIS-STETH [on viewscreen]: I know this sounds crazy, Captain, but I'm
not Steth. I'm Tom Paris.
STETH as JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
PARIS as STETH [on viewscreen]: We're dealing with an alien who's some
sort of identity thief. He traded places with me. Please beam us aboard.
STETH as JANEWAY: Maintain your position while we consider your request.
End transmission. Hold him in a tractor beam until you hear from me.
KIM: Aye Captain.
STETH as JANEWAY: I have a feeling Steth and his new friend are behind
whatever's happened to Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
STETH as JANEWAY: No time to explain. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Shuttle]

SEVEN: Captain?

[Bridge]

KIM: Commander, I'm reading an unauthorised shuttle launch. It's the
captain. She's in the shuttle Tom's been working on.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing her.
KIM: She's not responding.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Steth's ship. Look, I don't know who you are but I want to
know what's happening here.
PARIS as STETH [on viewscreen]: Who's on that shuttle?
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway.
PARIS as STETH [on viewscreen]: No. I'm betting the alien switched my
body, er, Tom's body for hers. You've got to let us out of this tractor
beam. We can catch her with this ship. Chakotay it's me.
CHAKOTAY: How do I know that?
PARIS as STETH [on viewscreen]: The other day in your office you told me
I'd turned my life around. Well, give me the chance to prove it. Let me
go after the shuttle. It is the only way we can get everybody back into
the right body.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, disengage the tractor beam.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS as STETH: Twenty thousand kilometres and closing.
DAELEN: Has he detected us yet?
PARIS as STETH: I'd say he has.

[Shuttle]

STETH as JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I'd advise you to reconsider this pursuit.
Killing me will only keep you trapped in those bodies.

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: He's right. We can't risk killing him.
PARIS as STETH: Yeah, but nothing's keeping him from killing us. Damn!
The ship's not nearly as manoeuverable as a shuttle.
DAELEN: Shields are down.
STETH as JANEWAY [OC]: I'm surprised you're so eager to

[Shuttle]

STETH as JANEWAY: reclaim your life on Voyager, Tom. I was just as
disappointed with it as you were.

[Steth's ship]

PARIS as STETH: Then I guess we were both wrong.

[Shuttle]

STETH as JANEWAY: It's time to move on again. Oh, Tom Be sure to send my
best regards to B'Elanna, hmm?

[Steth's ship]

DAELEN: He's charging the coaxial drive.
PARIS as STETH: Set the sensors to track him.
DAELEN: I can't. He's blocking us. We won't be able to follow him once he
goes into coaxial warp. We're losing him.
PARIS as STETH: The carburettor! We added a polaric modulator to the
coaxial drive. If I can target the modulator, hit it with a
chromo-electric pulse, that'll disrupt his engines. Here goes.

[Shuttle]

PARIS as STETH [OC]: I hope you still have my box wrench. Faulty
carburettors can be a pain to fix.

Captain's Log, Stardate 51775.2. While the alien intruder remains trapped
in the body of his last victim, the doctor has found a way to return Tom,
Steth and me to our own bodies.

STETH: Doctor, I can't thank you enough. You've given me my life back.
EMH: All in a day's work.
STETH: There were times when I thought I would be stuck in that body
forever.
PARIS: Believe me I'm just as happy to be back to the old Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: What do you plan to do now?
STETH: I'm going to take her back to Bentha. I hope to find the person
who belongs to that body.
EMH: But who knows if that's the end of it? We have no idea how long she
or he has been switching identities.
STETH: It may take a while, but I will do whatever I can to find everyone
you've violated.
JANEWAY: A security team will escort you to your ship and erect a
forcefield to contain her.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey programme]

TORRES: So this is where you've been hiding. A garage.
PARIS: It's more than just a garage! This is a monument to hundreds and
hundreds of hours that I probably should have spent with you.
TORRES: Probably?
PARIS: Definitely.
TORRES: It's a lovely garage, Tom, but I still don't understand why you
brought me here.
PARIS: Well, consider it a symbolic gesture. It's my less than subtle
attempt to let you in.
TORRES: I see. To make it clear that I mean almost as much to you as a, a
cam-a-ro.
PARIS: It's a mint condition 1969 Camaro. And yes, you mean a lot more to
me.



Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.

