Title: Basics, Part 2
Stardate: 50032.7
Original Airdate: September 4, 1996


CHAKOTAY: Let me help you.
WILDMAN: No, really, I'm all right.
CHAKOTAY: Don't push yourself. That goes for everyone. Perspiring wastes
water.
JANEWAY: All right people, follow me. Let's take it slow. This is the
most defensible location we've seen so far. The overhang should provide
us with shelter, and the breeze should keep insects away. All right,
let's make camp.

[Outside Cave Entrance]

HOGAN: Neelix, look at this. They almost look constructed. Maybe the
people on this world are cave dwellers.
NEELIX: If that's true, I'd say this is a do-not-disturb sign, wouldn't
you? They look humanoid. We might be able to use these as tools or
weapons. Gather them up, Mister Hogan. Is there a problem?
HOGAN: No, sir. Do you want all of them?
NEELIX: Waste nothing. That's one of the first rules of survival.
CREWWOMAN: Neelix, over here!
(Hogan screams.)
NEELIX: Hogan!

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: Computer, repeat stabiliser diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Damage has been detected in the stabiliser acceleration sensors.
PARIS: I just repaired the acceleration sensors.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching on intercept course.
PARIS: Signature?
COMPUTER: Kazon patrol vessel.
PARIS: Damn it! I don't have time for this. I don't have time for this!
Computer, all stop. Engage impulse. I told you I don't have time for this.

[Camp]

CHAKOTAY: That's all that's left of Hogan's uniform, Captain. We didn't
find anything else.
NEELIX: This is my fault. If I hadn't told Hogan to pick up these bones.
KES: You shouldn't blame yourself, Neelix.
JANEWAY: Stop it. There's no time to worry about blame. Hogan was a fine
officer and a good man. And our job is to make sure his death is the last
one for a long time! I will not let this planet destroy my crew. Kes, see
to it that everyone knows the tunnels are off-limits. I want clear safety
protocols established. Mister Tuvok, we need weapons.
TUVOK: I have already begun to design some rudimentary devices, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's our food and water status?
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds grisly, but I can make solar stills with the
material from this uniform. We could have water tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Do it.
NEELIX: Captain, none of the search teams were able to find plants of any
nutritional value.
JANEWAY: Then tell the crew to start turning over rocks. If anyone balks
at eating these, tell them it's an order from their captain. They may be
the difference between life and death.

[Sickbay]

SESKA: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SESKA: Hello, Doctor. Remember me?
EMH: How could I forget such an intriguing medical mystery? A Bajoran
crewman with a Cardassian physiology. How are you, Seska? I see we have a
new passenger.
SESKA: Doctor, I have to inform you about a change of command. I'm
curious how you'll react. The Kazon-Nistrim have taken Voyager.
EMH: How interesting.
SESKA: Does your programme have any problem with that?
EMH: One humanoid is pretty much the same as another from a holographic
point of view. I'm programmed to provide medical care to anyone who needs
it.
SESKA: Tell me, is it within your program's capabilities to lie or be
deceptive?
EMH: I've learned that a bedside manner occasionally requires me to, how
should I put it, soft-pedal the truth. But bald-faced lying, calculated
deceit? I don't have much experience with that sort of thing. But my
programme is adaptive. If you really need me to be deceptive, I'm sure I
could learn.
SESKA: It's not exactly what I meant. I think we'll keep you just as you
are.
EMH: As you wish. Your baby's in good health.
SESKA: Ah, you don't know how primitive Kazon medicine is. I'm sure
Chakotay would be glad to know you're looking after his son.
EMH: Chakotay's son? That isn't Chakotay's son.
SESKA: But you're wrong, Doctor. I impregnated myself with his DNA.
EMH: That may have been your intention, but it certainly wasn't the
result. Here. See for yourself. Your child has Cardassian DNA strands
here and Kazon DNA here. Human DNA has a significantly different
nucleotide sequence.
SESKA: But I was so certain. He, he looks
EMH: He's the first offspring of a Cardassian and a Kazon. We have no
frame of reference by which to judge his initial appearance. Perhaps he
will develop more Kazon features as he matures.
SESKA: Maje Culluh will be so pleased. End Medical Holographic Programme.

EMH: Medical Log, Stardate 50032.7. I have determined that Commander
Chakotay is not the father of Seska's child. I only wish there was some
way to inform him. What am I supposed to do? Lead a revolt with a gang
from Sandrine's? Conjure up holograms of Nathan Hale and Che Guevara? I'm
a doctor, not a counterinsurgent. Get hold of yourself. You're not just a
hologram. You're a Starfleet hologram. Maybe, maybe I could access a
tactical database, teach myself guerrilla warfare. But that would take
time. Computer, what is the crew complement?
COMPUTER: There are eighty nine Kazon
EMH: Eighty nine?
COMPUTER: and one Betazoid on board.
EMH: What did you say? Betazoid?
COMPUTER: There is one Betazoid on board.
EMH: Where? Who?
COMPUTER: Please restate a single question.
EMH: Who is it?
COMPUTER: Crewman Lon Suder.
EMH: Suder. Where is he?
COMPUTER: Between decks eight and nine.
EMH: Doctor to Suder.

[Jefferies Tube]

SUDER: Yes! Yes, Doctor. I hear you.
EMH [OC]: The ship has been taken over by the Kazon-Nistrim.
SUDER: I know. I've been hiding.
EMH [OC]: Can you make it to Sickbay?
SUDER: I think so.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Computer, emergency medical priority one one four. Delete the
signature of Mister Suder's comm. badge from the system. There is to be
no record of his being on board.

[Camp]

JANEWAY: Huddle together in groups. That'll preserve body heat. This is
no time to be shy. Tuvok.
KIM: Captain. How do you like your eggs?
TORRES: We found a nest about two kilometres away.
KIM: And that's not all. Cucumbers, or something like them. There are
vines full of them two hours from here.
JANEWAY: Take them to Neelix and tell him to hold off on the beetle stew,
at least for the time being. How's she doing, Samantha?
WILDMAN: I don't know, Captain. She seems tired, listless.
JANEWAY: Maybe she's just adjusting to the environment. After all, she
was born in space. Make sure you stay close to the fire, as soon as we
have one.
CHAKOTAY: Trapped on a barren planet and you're stuck with the only
Indian in the universe who can't start a fire by rubbing two sticks
together. I was never good at this as a child and I'm still not good at
it.
JANEWAY: Don't be so hard on yourself. None of the others have had any
success with it either. Must be the wood.
CHAKOTAY: We need kindling of some sort.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Something my father once told me about starting a fire.
KIM: There you go.

NEELIX: If we put some bigger rocks around the fire, they'll reflect the
heat better. I'm going to go get some.
KES: Neelix. You shouldn't go too far away from camp.

[Shuttlecraft]

PAXIM [on monitor]: Voyager's been taken by the Kazon-Nistrim. They're
flooding every subspace frequency with the news.
PARIS: Is there any word on the crew?
PAXIM [on monitor]: I'm afraid not.
PARIS: If you can help me with repairs, we can be on our way in a few
hours.
PAXIM [on monitor]: Lieutenant, our ships are no match for Voyager and
your shuttlecraft can hardly be expected
PARIS: Commander Paxim. My people are counting on you. Look, no one knows
Voyager like I do. I know every vulnerability, every blind spot. Don't
worry. I have a plan.
PAXIM [on monitor]: Very well. We'll rendezvous in an hour. Paxim out.
PARIS: One hour. I should be able to come up with some kind of plan in
one hour.

[Sickbay]

EMH: I was beginning to think you'd got lost.
SUDER: I'm sorry. They're still repairing the ship. I had to be careful.
EMH: We have no time to waste. According to the computer, we're at warp.
We've got to figure out some way to slow the ship down before we get too
far from the crew. That would seem to be our first priority. And then we
have to get some weapons. Mister Suder, are you listening to me?
SUDER: Yes.
EMH: Oh. I see. Perhaps you consider this an opportunity.
SUDER: Opportunity?
EMH: To obtain your freedom from confinement. How foolish of me to think
you would want to help.
SUDER: You're wrong. I do want to help.
EMH: Then what?
SUDER: I'm going to have to kill some of them.
EMH: It is possible. Violence might be required to retake the ship.
SUDER: I've worked so hard over the last few months to control the
violent feelings. I'm almost at peace with myself. I mean, I see the day
coming when I could be.
EMH: Mister Suder. If Lieutenant Tuvok were here, I know he would tell
you there are times when violence is required to defend yourself, to
defend your ship, to defend your crew.
SUDER: Yes, there is a logical use for violence for everyone else. With
me, once it begins
EMH: We must do this together, Mister Suder. If you don't trust yourself
yet, then trust me. I will help you anyway I can. One hologram and one
sociopath may not be much of a match for the Kazon, but we'll have to do.

[Camp]

CHAKOTAY: There are signs of a struggle near the edge of camp. I found
alien tracks.
JANEWAY: We can't wait until morning to go after them.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm better at tracking than starting fires.
TUVOK: I've completed a few weapons that might be appropriate, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This is thoughtful of you Tuvok, but my tribe never used bows
and arrows and I've never even shot one.
TUVOK: This is mine. I taught archery science for several years at the
Vulcan Institute of Defensive Arts.
JANEWAY: Take as many crew members as you need.

[Planet Surface]

NATIVE: Toos. Feelhi hiseri.
NEELIX: Now, see here. You just keep your hands off her!
NATIVE 1: Toluhee
NATIVE 2: Kahee! Kahee! Feelhi
NATIVE 1: Nanmugi, nahee
NEELIX: Commander. Thank goodness.
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right?
KES: They haven't hurt us.
CHAKOTAY: Have you been able to tell if they have a leader?
KES: I'd say it's the one with the claw.
NEELIX: I agree. The other two seem to be trying to figure out what to
make of us. In a manner of speaking. Not in a culinary sense, I hope.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to the sound of my voice, and you'll know that I mean
you no harm. I come without weapons. But I must have my people back.
CHIEF: Lum, usetum hator
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, but she should stay with you. I must take them with
me.
NATIVE 1: Kodor, kodihor kotiheer!
CHIEF: Jimugan neesensak
NEELIX: Stand? Certainly. I'll be happy to stand. What? Over here? Fine,
fine, fine, fine.
NATIVE 1: Ku haree, tegisee
NEELIX: What? No. No. No! That is unacceptable!
CHAKOTAY: Kes, stand up slowly and walk away with us. (to Aliens) We have
to go now. Just keep walking. Don't look back.
CHIEF: Tahee! Tahee!

CHAKOTAY: In there!
NEELIX: Commander, that looks just like the tunnel where Hogan
CHAKOTAY: I know. If they know it too, they won't follow us in. Come on!

[Engineering]

CULLUH: You'd think this crew had never seen a warp drive before.
SESKA: No one tried to adjust the antimatter flow today?
KAZON ENGINEER: No one.
CULLUH: If you're lying, I'll have your head.
KAZON ENGINEER: I swear it, Maje.
SESKA: There should have been some warning before the antimatter injector
froze. A drop in core temperature, a magnetic constriction alarm,
something. He's either lying, or
CULLUH: Or what?
SESKA: Computer, run a level 1 scan for intruders.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Internal scanner relays have been damaged.
CULLUH: I thought you said all repairs were complete.
KAZON ENGINEER: They were. I thought they were.

[Sickbay]

SESKA [on monitor]: I want a deck-by-deck search of all Jeffries tubes
and conduits. Use the Federation tricorders.
SUDER: Do you have a portable thoron generator?
EMH: Yes, of course. We use it to treat radiation burns.
SUDER: It's an old Maquis trick. Thoron particles neutralise tricorder
sensors.
EMH: Mister Suder, we need some weapons if we're going to retake the ship.

[Camp]

WILDMAN: She has a fever. I don't know what to do.
JANEWAY: Let me get her some water.

[Outside]

JANEWAY: The baby needs water.
KIM: Those tremors seem to be getting stronger.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's team should have been back by now. We better look for
them before it gets too hot. Get a few people together. I'll join you in
a second.

[Cave]

CHAKOTAY: Come on. We have to see if there's another way out of here.
KES: I feel a breeze.
NEELIX: It's coming from this way.

[Outside Cave Entrance]

KIM: Do you really think Commander Chakotay would go in there after what
happened to Hogan?
JANEWAY: He may have had no other choice.
TORRES: How do we get them away from the tunnels?
KIM: A couple of phaser blasts would do the trick.
JANEWAY: Who are the fastest runners here?
TORRES: I was on the decathlon team before I quit the Academy. The
track-and-field coach was furious with me.
JANEWAY: Anyone else here who can run?
AYALA: Yeah.
JANEWAY: Okay. You three will be the sprint team. Once you reach our
camp, you should be safe.

[Cave]

CHAKOTAY: Which way do you like, Tuvok?
TUVOK: From a tactical point of view, the options are not encouraging.
However, moving past the creature might lead us to an exit.
CHAKOTAY: All right, let's take it slow. Single file.

[Outside Cave Entrance]

TORRES: Hey! Up here!
AYALA: Come on!
TORRES: Up here. You want us? You want us? Come and get us! Come on. Come
and get us.
JANEWAY: Pull this.

[Cave]

KES: Look out!

[Outside Cave Entrance]

JANEWAY: Chakotay! Tuvok!

[Cave]

CREWMAN: The tunnel is clear!
CHAKOTAY: Go! Everybody out!

[Outside Cave Entrance]

JANEWAY: Move. Let's go. Go! Go! Go, go!

[Cave Entrance]

TUVOK: Chakotay, your spear.
CHAKOTAY: Go, go, go!

[Outside Cave Entrance]

JANEWAY: Come on, come on. Go!
CHAKOTAY: Come on.

[Jefferies Tube]

KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand it. Thoron particles are leaking into
the conduits from somewhere. I can't get any other readings. Check the
next level.
KAZON CREWMAN: Yes, sir.

[Sickbay]

COMPUTER: Incoming subspace message on the Emergency Medical Holographic
channel.
EMH: On the emergency channel?
PARIS [on monitor]: Doc, I hope you're receiving this because if you're
not, I'm a dead duck. I'm piggybacking this message on a fake Kazon
signal I'm sending to the Bridge. I'm betting they won't be monitoring
your Emergency Medical channel. I'm bringing help, but you have to do
something for us. When the attack begins, I need you to get the computer
to block the discharge from the backup phaser power couplings. You got
that? The backup couplings. I'm taking out the primary couplings myself,
but I need those backups to overload when they switch to them. Don't do
anything until the attack begins or they might notice. That's it for now.
I'll be seeing you soon, I hope.
EMH: Good news. Help is on the way. Mister Paris apparently was able to.
Oh.
SUDER: I didn't know what to do. I don't think I should leave him there
where they could find him.
EMH: Of course. You were smart to bring him here. We can put him in a
stasis drawer.
SUDER: Well, we have weapons now.
EMH: You did what was necessary, Mister Suder. Five cc's of inaprovaline
will help you calm down.
SUDER: No! No drugs. I just need to breathe. See the light that is my
breath.

[Ready Room]

CULLUH: We've just received a message from our patrol ship. They have
tracked down the shuttle from Voyager and destroyed it.
SESKA: Were two people on board?
CULLUH: They didn't say.
SESKA: Two people were unaccounted for when we captured the crew. Have
they found any evidence of an intruder on board?
CULLUH: No. But the search has been slowed down by a thoron particle leak.
SESKA: Thoron particles? That's an old Maquis trick to fool tricorders.

[Camp]

TUVOK: After what transpired, I believe we have to prepare ourselves for
an alien attack, Captain. Our priority should be to increase the weapons
arsenal and to begin training everyone in the use of these weapons.
JANEWAY: I don't like the sound of that, Lieutenant. We may have to
coexist with these aliens a long time.
TUVOK: Nevertheless
CHAKOTAY: I agree with the Captain. We have to find a way to share this
world with them.
TUVOK: You may find nobility in the savage, Commander, but he is only
interested in killing you.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that.
KES: Captain. The baby is very sick. She's having trouble breathing. She
has a high fever. There's nothing more I can do for her.
KIM: Captain!
JANEWAY: I think our top priority has just been dictated. Break camp.
We've got to get out of here before it blows.

[Sickbay]

SESKA: Why are you still here? I shut down your programme when I left.
EMH: You must be mistaken.
SESKA: Where's your thoron generator?
EMH: It was damaged on a recent away mission and left behind.
SESKA: Who else from Voyager is on board?
EMH: I wouldn't know.
SESKA: I don't believe you.
EMH: There are several dozen crewmen on board actually, and they have
been working round the clock to sabotage your vessel.
SESKA: That's a lie. At most, there is one, and I believe it is a Maquis
crewman.
EMH: Yes. Of course, you're right. It is one of the Maquis.
SESKA: I won't play these games with a trick of light.
EMH: Sticks and stones won't break my bones, so you can imagine how I
feel about being called names.
SESKA: I don't believe you could have sabotaged this ship alone.
EMH: Very well. Since you are obviously about to disable my programme
anyway, let me take the credit I deserve. I did sabotage the ship all by
myself with the computer's help, of course. As a matter of fact, one of
your crewman came in unexpectedly and caught me in the act.
SESKA: You killed him?
EMH: He left me no choice.
SESKA: Why create a thoron leak if you're not hiding someone?
EMH: I would think it's obvious. To make you believe I was hiding
someone. I've had your people crawling through the bowels of this ship
for hours, looking for an intruder.
SESKA: You're more talented in the art of deception than you led me to
believe.
EMH: I was inspired by the presence of a master.
SESKA: Computer, access Culluh Zero-one. Disregard all voice commands
from Starfleet personnel. Security lockout. Seska to Bridge. What's going
on?
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: A couple of Talaxian ships have fired on us. Nothing
to worry about.
SESKA: Good bye, Doctor. I'd rather not take any more chances.

SUDER: Doctor? Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to respond. All Starfleet voice access has been
cancelled.
EMH [on monitor]: Mister Suder. If you are hearing this, you have just
unsuccessfully attempted to access the Emergency Medical Programme. I
have programmed this message to play in the event that I have been
disabled. This means, of course, that the fate of Voyager now depends
solely on you. I can imagine how you must feel at this moment. I want you
to know, you have my full confidence. You have already shown great
courage and dedication to your crew. I have left an additional message
for Captain Janeway and Lieutenant Tuvok noting your heroism, in case I
am irretrievable. You know what you have to do and when to do it, and I
know with our fate in your hands, we will prevail. Good luck, Mister
Suder.

[Bridge]

KAZON ENGINEER: The Talaxians are retreating toward the nebula.
CULLUH: We'll teach them the price for attacking the Nistrim. Lay in a
pursuit course.

[Shuttlecraft]

PAXIM [OC]: Commander Paxim to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
PAXIM [OC]: They're following us as planned. We're bringing them to you.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Ready and waiting. I just hope you are too, Doc.

[Planet Surface]

JANEWAY: This way.
NATIVE: Makee nah!
CHAKOTAY: (to Native woman) It's okay.
CHIEF: Tal kada

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: Here we go.

[Bridge]

CULLUH: What's happening?
KAZON ENGINEER: Our phaser power couplings are under attack.
SESKA: From where?
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't see anyone. I'm not picking up anything on the
scanners. Shields are buckling.
CULLUH: Take evasive action.
KAZON ENGINEER: I have it on the scanners. It's a Federation shuttlecraft.
CULLUH: Lock phasers. Destroy it.
KAZON ENGINEER: Primary phaser power is down.
SESKA: Switch to backup systems.
KAZON ENGINEER: Confirmed. Phasers are locked on.
CULLUH: Fire!
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand. I'm showing an overload.

[Shuttlecraft]

PARIS: Yes, Doc, yes! Paris to Commander Paxim. Stand by. I'm going to
start transporting your people to Voyager.
PAXIM [OC]: Standing by.

[Bridge]

CULLUH: Seska! Seska!

[Ready Room]

CULLUH: Seska? No.
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to Maje Culluh. We're being boarded.
CULLUH: Abandon ship.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I'm sealing off the Bridge manually. I've got to get the computer
back on-line. All Starfleet voice access has been disabled.
PAXIM: I'm reading a Kazon shuttle leaving the ship. There are also
escape pods being launched.
PARIS: Forget them. We have more important things to do.

[Planet Surface]

KES: She's breathing better, isn't she?
CHIEF: Sad katonk.
NATIVE: Anuk! Anuk! Anuk! Anuk!

[Bridge]

PARIS: Welcome back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well done, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I had a lot of help. The Talaxians, the Doc, Mister Suder.
KIM: Suder? We thought he was killed during the initial attack.
PARIS: No, he and the Doctor sabotaged the ship. Suder disabled the
phasers before they killed him.

[Sickbay]

EMH: You would have been proud of him, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I offer you a Vulcan prayer, Mister Suder. May your death bring
you the peace you never found in life.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Mister Kim, is this ship capable of sustained flight?
KIM: All propulsion and navigational systems are functioning within
normal parameters, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Take us away from our new home and set a course for the
old one, Mister Paris. Warp eight.
PARIS: Heading four one, mark seven seven. Destination, Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Engage.



Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.
