Title: The Killing Game, Part 1
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: April 3, 1998


[Holodeck two - Klingon battle simulation]

JANEWAY: Prepare to meet your ancestors! This battle is yours today, but
the House of Mo'kai will never yield.
ALPHA: KasKree! Move away, coward. I want to make this kill.
JANEWAY: You should have killed me when my back was turned.
ALPHA: I want to see the fear in your eyes.
JANEWAY: Look closely and you'll see your own destruction!
ALPHA: You are resilient prey.
JANEWAY: I'm no one's prey!
ALPHA: You are mine. Now, and after death. Sickbay, this is Holodeck two.
Janeway requires medical assistance.

[Sickbay]

HIROGEN MEDIC: She'll survive.
ALPHA: What about her neural interface?
HIROGEN MEDIC: Stable.
ALPHA: Are you sure? There were times when she seemed aware of who she is.
HIROGEN MEDIC: Impossible. I was monitoring the crew during the entire
simulation.
She believes she's whoever we programme her to be. Shall I return her to
the Klingon simulation?
ALPHA: No. Bring her to Holodeck one. I've found another programme I want
to try. A conflict that took place on her own planet. It should prove
stimulating.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

SEVEN: Wrong, would it be wrong to kiss, seeing I feel like this. Would
it be wrong to try? Wrong, would it be wrong to stay, Here in your arms
this way, Under this starry sky? If it is wrong ...[song continues under
dialogue]
JANEWAY: Welcome to Le Coeur de Lion! I'm Katrine. The first round is
with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside. More
escargot for table nine. Jacque, no lady tonight? Oh, we'll have to see
what we can do about that. Forgive my neglecting you. Now, where were we?
Ah, yes, my latest adventure in Paris. I'm afraid I have to neglect you
again. Excuse me.
TUVOK: That's him.
JANEWAY: Our new Kommandant?
TUVOK: British intelligence believes he's been sent to oversee the
occupation of the city.
JANEWAY: What's his history?
TUVOK: He served with Rommel in North Africa and Schmidt in Poland. He is
a formidable military strategist, notorious for his cruelty.
JANEWAY: Ah. Let's make him feel at home. Send him a bottle of Chateau
LaTour. My compliments.
TUVOK: The '29?
JANEWAY: I hate to waste good wine. Give him the '36.
TUVOK: As you wish.
SEVEN: ...and I have waited so long. It must be right, it can't be wrong.
Merci. Be generous to Claude this evening. Without him, my voice is
empty. Good evening.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Sing.
SEVEN: Tonight's performance is over. Return tomorrow.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Now.
SEVEN: Remove your hand.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Obey me, or I will hunt you down and your bones will
adorn the bulkhead of my ship.
ALPHA: Sit down and play the game. In this setting, we have no ships. We
are an ancient race of soldiers intent upon conquering this world. Play
the game.
JANEWAY: Now, now, what's this? Mademoiselle LeNeuf will be happy to sing
another song. Just give her a few minutes to freshen up.
SEVEN: It's late.
JANEWAY: Freshen up.
SEVEN: Very well.
JANEWAY: Kommandant Karr.
ALPHA: You know me.
JANEWAY: Your reputation precedes you. I'm Katrine. Le Coeur de Lion is
my establishment. The first round is with my compliments, on one
condition. You leave the war outside.
ALPHA: I wish to speak with her. Alone.
JANEWAY: Charming gentleman.
ALPHA: He is disoriented. Your world is unfamiliar to him.
JANEWAY: He'll be comfortable soon enough. The arms of friends are open
to all.
ALPHA: I've heard otherwise.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
ALPHA: I understand there is opposition to our presence here, among your
citizens.
JANEWAY: The Resistance? In Paris perhaps, but this is a small city,
defenceless. We've learned to be a little more diplomatic. When this war
is over we want to remain on good terms with the victor.
ALPHA: Whoever that may be.
JANEWAY: Whoever that may be.
ALPHA: Your city may be defenceless, but it's crucial to the war. Any
ground assault into Germany must pass through this province. The
Resistance will come here.
JANEWAY: If they do, I'll tell them what I tell everyone. Leave the war
outside.
ALPHA: Excellent.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Kommandant, I've been informed there's a problem in
the Engineering section. The warp plasma network has become unstable.
JANEWAY: What's he talking about?
ALPHA: It need not concern you. To the hunt.
JANEWAY: The hunt?
ALPHA: For the Resistance. I shall take great pleasure in tracking them
down and making the kill.
JANEWAY: Au revoir.

JANEWAY: How'd we do?
SEVEN: Insufficient for a Saturday night. Twelve hundred forty seven
francs and eighty one Reich marks.
JANEWAY: Well it should be enough to buy an oscillator to extend the
range of our radio. First thing tomorrow morning I want you to take a
little trip to the countryside. There's a Monsieur Goulot who has a
cottage just past the third bridge. He's got a wine cellar full of vacuum
tubes. Tell him we need a high frequency oscillator. Offer him three
hundred francs but don't go any higher than five hundred.
SEVEN: We have more pressing needs.
JANEWAY: Such as?
SEVEN: Explosives. We need a launcher that can fire armour piercing
grenades.
JANEWAY: Planning on blowing up a German tank?
SEVEN: If necessary.
JANEWAY: We're not trying to build an army here.
SEVEN: Maybe it's time we did. Three more German battalions have occupied
the city and a Panzer division is holding position eleven kilometres
away. When the Americans arrive and the fighting begins I don't intend to
be standing next to a piano singing Moonlight Becomes You.
JANEWAY: The Americans won't even be able to approach this city without
our help, and if they can't liberate Sainte Claire the assault into
Germany could fail. We need to be gathering information about German
troop movements and relaying it to Allied Command.
SEVEN: I'm tired of lighting the Nazi's cigarettes and laughing at their
jokes. We should be helping the Allies by assassinating these pigs.
JANEWAY: The moment we start shooting we expose ourselves. Right now, no
one suspects us, and I am not about to risk our entire operation because
you've suddenly developed a nervous trigger finger.
SEVEN: That is your opinion, Madame.
JANEWAY: I'm the leader of the movement here and right now my opinion is
the only one that counts, so get the oscillator. I think we're all
feeling the strain. It's been a hard four years, but believe me, the
Third Reich is feeling it too. We just have to hang on a little while
longer. Word from the Americans is going to come any day.
SEVEN: Perhaps.
TUVOK: Again?
JANEWAY: Again. Why is she so adamant? What she's proposing would put us
all at risk.
TUVOK: Maybe that's her intention.
JANEWAY: If you have suspicions, my old friend, let's hear them.
TUVOK: From the beginning, she's been argumentative, and on more than a
few occasions she's disobeyed your direct orders.
JANEWAY: She's headstrong. Typical of the underground.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, her behaviour has threatened our identities.
JANEWAY: She's the only munitions expert we have, and she can carry a
tune. We need her. Let's keep our eye on her. Have her followed for the
next few days. If she is a Nazi infiltrator we'll have to eliminate her.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

NEELIX: Bonjour Madame. Put it on my account. Guten Tag.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: You! Halt! Get off your vehicle. What are you
transporting?
NEELIX: Nothing but the very essentials of life.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Proceed to your destination.
NEELIX: That I will. That I most certainly will.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: If the choice were mine you would already be dead.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

RADIO: All report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with
low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from forty
five degrees to
TORRES: Damn, I'm missing it.
TUVOK: Our most recent intelligence shows two German divisions here and
here.
JANEWAY: How recent is this intelligence?
TUVOK: Forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Old news.
RADIO: Is Reginald Smith and you're listening to the British Radio
Network. This report will repeat in
TORRES: Forty five seconds.
RADIO: Forty five seconds.
TORRES: Here's to English precision.
JANEWAY: We're closed.
NEELIX [OC]; Morning delivery.
JANEWAY: You're late. What happened?
NEELIX: Oh, just a tête-à-tête with a member of the Master Race.
JANEWAY: That's the second time this week. Sounds like they're increasing
their patrols.
TUVOK: Perhaps it's time we chose another courier. Our baker is arousing
suspicion.
NEELIX: There's no need to worry. I change my route every day, and I've
become quite friendly with most of the Gestapo. They just love my strudel.
RADIO: A kind thank you to Jazzy McNulty and his Band. Now, the weather
for today, September the twenty second, nineteen forty four. In London
skies are grey, with a strong chance of afternoon rain. Temperatures will
range from a low of fifty two degrees to a high of seventy one. The
northern coast reports heavy rain, strong winds and ocean swells reaching
four feet. Devon-shire, Hertford-shire and Solent-shire all report rain.
It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the
Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five
degrees to a high of sixty three. I am Reginald Smith and you are
listening.
TORRES: Got it. Let's see the code key.
JANEWAY: Every fifth letter, every third vowel. Use the Sunday decryption
sequence. A, H, C. Straight from Allied High Command.
NEELIX: It must be important.
TUVOK: All messages regarding the war are important. It's only a matter
of degree.
NEELIX: I suppose you're right but do you have to be so logical about
everything?
TUVOK: In any covert battle, logic is a potent weapon. You might try it
sometime.
JANEWAY: American Fourth Infantry to invade Sainte Claire Tuesday dawn.
NEELIX: That's two days from now.
JANEWAY: Require assistance. Disable enemy communications. End message.
TUVOK: The German radio transmitter is housed at their Headquarters.
NEELIX: That building is surrounded by guards. We can't just waltz in
there and plant a bomb.
TORRES: Maybe I can help.
JANEWAY: How?
TORRES: I'm upset. I need to see my special friend, even if it means
bothering him at the office.
TUVOK: A reconnaissance mission.
TORRES: I'll try to locate the radio, see where the guards are posted,
examine the locks, gather enough information to get us inside.
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous. If you're caught you'll be tortured for
information.
TORRES: You don't know my friend. He would never do anything to harm his
own child.
JANEWAY: Encode a response to Allied Command. Confirm that we're received
their message. Tell them we're proceeding according to plan.

[Saint Claire - Street outside German HQ]

GUARD: Was es ist, Fräulein.
TORRES: Ich muß mit ihrem Hauptmann sprechen.
GUARD: Kommen hier.

[Commandant's Office]

NAZI KAPITAN: Ever since my days at the university I've admired this
painting and now it's mine. Our fellow officers might prefer gold or
land, but for me the greatest prize of war is art.
ALPHA: Trophies of the hunt, but was the hunt fair?
NAZI KAPITAN: Sir?
ALPHA: We entered this city with superior firepower against a weakened
prey. Do you really deserve these prizes?
NAZI KAPITAN: We are German. The German people deserve Europe and
everything in it.
ALPHA: Why?
NAZI: Sir, you question our destiny?
ALPHA: Of course not. But I want to hear it in your own words. Tell me,
why are we the Master Race?
NAZI KAPITAN: Our blood is pure. Our people lived and hunted on this land
for a thousand years before the degenerate races brought their
corruption. Europe must be purified.
ALPHA: You, yourself, are you stronger than these degenerate races? More
cunning?
NAZI KAPITAN: Yes, of course.
ALPHA: And if you were alone without an army supporting you, would you
continue the hunt? If your Prey were armed instead of defenceless, what
then?
NAZI KAPITAN: I, Colonel, I, I don't know what you're trying
ALPHA: You are superior to no one! Never underestimate your prey or
disrespect its abilities. If you do, you will become the hunted. When the
opposing army invades this city, remember my words. Enter.
NAZI KAPITAN: Brigitte.
TORRES: I'm sorry, I know I'm not supposed to come here. Don't blame him.
I told him that I was ill, that I had to see you.
ALPHA: I will leave you two alone.
NAZI KAPITAN: Heil Hitler! It's all right, the Colonel is in a strange
mood today. What's wrong? Is it our child?
TORRES: I don't know. I was dizzy.
NAZI KAPITAN: I'll call the Doctor.
TORRES: No, I feel better now. Maybe I just needed to see you. Why
haven't you shown me this place before?
NAZI KAPITAN: I didn't want your neighbours to see you coming here. They
make it difficult enough, knowing we're together.
TORRES: I don't care what they think. It's beautiful.
NAZI KAPITAN: Prax Atilles, master sculptor of ancient Greece. There are
only three like this in all of Europe.
TORRES: So many wonderful things.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

HIROGEN SS CAPTAIN: The Kommandant would have us continue this simulation
until we rot. It's pointless. We should begin the hunt. He believes we
must learn more about our Prey but I have learned enough. Ready your
weapon. Avoid the cranium.
SEVEN: This way.
NEELIX: But the message.
SEVEN: No time!
HIROGEN SS CAPTAIN: Computer, exit holodeck. We'll take them to the
medical bay.

[Sickbay]

HIROGEN MEDIC: This neural interface has been damaged.
EMH: That's because it took a direct hit. One of your bullets grazed the
base of her skull.
HIROGEN MEDIC: I'll provide you with another. Install it.
EMH: Not until I've repaired her injuries.
HIROGEN MEDIC: How long?
EMH: She has two fractured vertebrae and a punctured lung. Another hour
at least.
HIROGEN MEDIC: Him?
EMH: I've stabilised his vital systems, but he still has bullet fragments
lodged in his shoulder.
HIROGEN MEDIC: I will treat him.
EMH: This time you might do a better job repairing the muscle
lacerations. The last crewmember you treated was brought back in with
internal bleeding.
HIROGEN MEDIC: Your crew is fragile. They fall too easily.
EMH: What do you expect? They've been stabbed, shot, beaten, phasered and
bat'lethed the past three weeks. Their bodies weren't designed for this
kind of punishment!
ALPHA: What happened?
HIROGEN MEDIC: These prey were hunted by Turanj. Their injuries are
severe.
EMH: You assured me that your people would avoid causing serious head
injuries. Another centimetre and the bullet would have penetrated her
brain. If you can't keep your people under control then you should put an
end to this blood sport.
ALPHA: The simulations will continue.
EMH: At least activate the holodeck safety protocols.
ALPHA: No.
EMH: It'll prevent life-threatening injuries., for your people as well!
ALPHA: It will also eliminate the challenge.
EMH: I have had twenty eight wounded and one fatality in the past twelve
hours. Even I can't keep up with that level of triage.
ALPHA: You will keep up or they will die. Their lives are in your hands,
Doctor. Don't fail them. When that one is ready, place him in holodeck
two. Let's see how he fares with the Klingons.
HIROGEN MEDIC: What about her?
ALPHA: Send her back to Holodeck One. I like her voice.

[Bridge]

ALPHA: Progress?
KIM: By cutting through the bulkheads on decks four, five and six we've
been able to expand both holodeck grids by five thousand square metres.
ALPHA: More.
KIM: I can't give you any more. Not without compromising Voyager's
primary systems.
ALPHA: Then compromise them.
KIM: Look, holodecks require a tremendous amount of energy. I've already
rerouted power from all nonessential systems. Anything more, and we'll
start losing propulsion, deflectors, even life support.
ALPHA: I'll transfer a supply of power nodules from my vessel. Integrate
them into your systems. I want to expand the holo-projectors into all
surrounding sections. Replicate enough emitters for the task.
KIM: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]

KIM: The holo-emitters in this corridor are stable. Let's start working
on section nineteen. But first, tell the guard to escort you to
Engineering. That we need more equipment, specifically, a type three
isolinear emitter. If he gives you any trouble, say I can't complete the
assignment without it.
ASHMORE: We need an isolinear emitter from Engineering.
EMH: Ensign, how did I get here?
KIM: I transferred you here, using the new emitters in this section.
EMH: I assume you've got a plan?
KIM: Half a plan.
EMH: Let's hear it.
KIM: Before we can retake the ship we've got to get the crew back, and
that means disabling the neural interfaces.
EMH: Easier said than done. The great Hunters are everywhere you turn.
KIM: Don't worry, I think I've found a way to tap into the Sickbay
diagnostic console. The only catch is. Standby with the emitter. I'm
almost done here.
EMH: The catch, Ensign?
KIM: Somebody's got to be inside the holodeck to engage the bridge
control relays.
EMH: We're short handed.
KIM: I know.
EMH: Well, we've got a Borg on board, don't we? Maybe we can put her to
good use.

[Ready room]

ALPHA: I've been studying Voyager's database looking for our next
simulation. There are many to choose from. These people have a violent
history. I believe I've found a worthy prey. The Borg. When World War II
is over we will recreate a notorious battle known as Wolf 359.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: I look forward to it.
ALPHA: I thought you might, but if you continue to disobey me this is one
hunt you will never see. You nearly destroyed two of my favoured prey.
You were careless.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: I've become impatient. We penetrated this vessel,
overcame their defences, and in the moment of the kill, you forced us to
stop. Now we play these incessant games. It's time we took our trophies
and moved on.
ALPHA: Your lust for the kill has blinded you, like many young Hunters.
If you took the time to study your prey, to understand its behaviour, you
might learn something.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: There is nothing to be learned.
ALPHA: You're wrong. Each Prey exposes us to another way of life and
makes us re-evaluate our own. Have you considered our future? What would
become of us when we have hunted this territory to exhaustion?
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: We will travel to another part of space, search for
new prey, as we have always done.
ALPHA: A way of life that hasn't changed for a thousand years.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Why should it?
ALPHA: Species that don't change, die. We've lost our way. We've allowed
our predatory instincts to dominate us. We disperse ourselves throughout
the quadrant, sending ships in all directions. We've become a solitary
race, isolated. We've spread ourselves too thin. We're no longer a
culture. We have no identity. In another thousand years no one will
remember the name Hirogen. Our people must come back together, combine
forces, rebuild our civilisation.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: What of the hunt?
ALPHA: The Hunt will always continue, but in a new way. I intend to
transform this ship into a vast simulation, populated with a varied and
endless supply of prey. In time, this technology can be duplicated for
other Hirogen. These Holodecks will allow us to hold onto our past while
we face the future.
HIROGEN SS OFFICER: Even if I were persuaded, others wouldn't be.
ALPHA: Then you are with me. I must continue my research. I'll see you
tomorrow on Holodeck one. The Americans are due to invade.

[Sickbay]

EMH: Remain calm and stay quiet. There's a Hirogen working in the
bio-lab, he might hear us. What's the last thing you remember?
SEVEN: An attack. Hirogen vessels. They breached our hull and boarded the
ship. I was in a phaser fight on deck three. I was struck several times.
That's all I remember.
EMH: Then you have no memory of the simulations in the holodeck?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: The neural interface must be circumventing your memory centres.
SEVEN: Neural interface?
EMH: It's a subdermal transmitter that links your neo-cortex to the
holodeck. In essence, it makes you believe you're a character within the
programme.
SEVEN: Why am I in Sickbay?
EMH: You were wounded in a simulation It's my job to patch you all up and
send you back in. Half the crew is under lock and key. The rest are
fighting for their lives on the Holodeck. This has been going on for
nineteen days. Dozens of battle scenarios, one more brutal than the last.
You should see what a mess you were after the Crusades.
SEVEN: Will I be sent into another simulation?
EMH: Yes, but this time with an advantage. I have found a way to disable
the interface by remodulating one of your Borg implants to emit a jamming
signal. Once the Hirogen have brought you back to the holodeck, the
jamming signal will activate within seconds.
SEVEN: My objective?
EMH: Find a control panel inside the Holodeck and engage the bridge
access relays. That will enable Ensign Kim and me to deactivate all the
neural interfaces. After Captain Janeway and the crew regain awareness
you can work with them to mount a resistance against the Hirogen.
SEVEN: What simulation will I be entering?
EMH: World War II. A twentieth century Earth conflict. Do you know
anything about it?
SEVEN: Nothing.
EMH: That could be a problem. Once the interface is disabled, you won't
remember anything about your role in the simulation. Think of it as a new
social setting. Do your best to fit in.
HIROGEN MEDIC: This is the last neural interface. When you've finished
with her, you'll help me replicate more.
EMH: I have to sedate you now.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

SEVEN: That old black magic has me in it's spell. That old black magic
that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same
old witchcraft when your eyes meet... I must discontinue this activity. I
am not well.
ALPHA: If the entertainment is over, I'll be going.
JANEWAY: Stay right there, Kommandant. I'm sure she's fine. Let me talk
to her. What's wrong?
SEVEN: I require a glass of water.
JANEWAY: Make it a quick one. I promised the Kommandant you'd be singing
till midnight. I want to get a lot of information out of him tonight.
SEVEN: I am ill.
JANEWAY: Look, I don't care if you're dying. Get back out there.
SEVEN: I won't.
JANEWAY: Maybe you're right about her.
TUVOK: The evidence is increasing. She was present today when our courier
was shot down in the street yet somehow, she was unharmed. And now, on
the eve of our liberation, she becomes uncooperative.
JANEWAY: Leave this to me.

[US Army - Captain's Tent]

PARIS: Captain.
CHAKOTAY: At ease. What's the word?
PARIS: There is no word. At least not from the Resistance in Sainte
Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Then we won't get any support from inside the city.
PARIS: You may be underestimating the good citizens of Sainte Claire. I
spent a summer there when I was eighteen.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You ate a few snails, fell in love with a local
girl and became an expert on the city.
PARIS: Ah, well, yeah, pretty much like that.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
PARIS: But believe me, Captain, those people love their town. They'll
fight for it and die for it. Don't count them out yet.
CHAKOTAY: All right, but I won't count them in, either. We continue as
planned. An assault from the north at first light. So, who was the
mademoiselle?
PARIS: Her name was Brigitte. Great gams. One hell of a temper.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like your kind of girl.
PARIS: August 29, 1936, 12:17 p.m. That's when my train pulled out of
Sainte Claire. That's the last time I saw her. We wrote to each other
every week for three years, then the war broke out and I never heard from
her again.
CHAKOTAY: Sainte Claire's not a big place. She shouldn't be too hard to
find.
PARIS: I'm counting on it.

[Le Coeur de Lion]

JANEWAY: You'll maintain position here, twenty metres from the front
doors. Arm yourself with a submachine gun and watch for any sign of
trouble.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Now, we've observed a twenty second break in the guard rotation
at four fifteen a.m. That should you and me enough time to enter the
building through the storm window on the eastern wall.
TORRES: When I was there yesterday I saw guards posted at all three
stairways. You'll have to reach the second floor through the elevator
shaft. The command post is in the main gallery at the end of the hall.
JANEWAY: Once inside, we plant the charges, blow the transmitter. You'll
remain here. If something goes wrong and we're caught, destroy all
evidence of the Underground. Our contact list, decryption codes,
everything.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: We leave in one hour. This won't make much of a bang. You forgot
to connect the detonator.
SEVEN: I will correct the error.
JANEWAY: It's lucky I found your little error. It might have undermined
our mission. Are you having second thoughts about tonight?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Good, because I don't want any more mistakes.
SEVEN: There won't be any.
JANEWAY: Let's hope not.

[Mess hall]

EMH: We've got to stop meeting like this.
KIM: I managed to grab a quick scan of Holodeck one, and it looks like
Seven of Nine is on the move. Are you ready in Sickbay?
EMH: My Hirogen taskmaster is working in the bio-lab. I'll have access to
the medical console for another twenty minutes at least.
KIM: That'll give me enough time to get to the Bridge. Good afternoon.
YOUNG HIROGEN: What are you doing in here?
KIM: Trying to get the replicator system back on-line. unless you prefer
the emergency rations. Personally, I'm getting tired of synthetic
protein. You're supposed to be the finest hunters in the quadrant, why
don't you find us something a little more tasty? Something wrong?
YOUNG HIROGEN: An unauthorised transmission was sent from this room.
KIM: What kind of transmission?
YOUNG HIROGEN: I don't know. Maybe you can tell me.
KIM: Well, I was trying to re-route power from the main computer to the
replicators. Of course, I must have tripped a communications sub-routine.
Sorry about that, didn't mean to worry you. Your people have damaged just
about every system on this vessel. Accidents are bound to happen. Now, if
you don't mind, I'm due on the Bridge.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Show it to me.
KIM: What!
YOUNG HIROGEN: I want to see this sub-routine. Show me what you were
doing when the accident occurred.
KIM: Forget it. I don't have time.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Do as I say!
KIM: All right! You'd better call the bridge. Tell your superior I'm
going to be late, that I'm working under your orders now, not his. Go
ahead, make the call. I don't want to take the blame for this.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Report to the bridge.
KIM: Thanks.

[Kommandant's Office]

JANEWAY: Set the charges here, there and there. This looks like a message
from one of their reconnaissance teams. These must be instructions for
troop deployments. The Germans must be taking up new positions outside
the city. It looks like they're mobilising more troops than our sources
originally expected. They're moving armoured units into the valley. They
must know the Americans are coming. We've got to warn them somehow. What
are you doing? You haven't set the charges. What is that?
SEVEN: I believe it is a transmitter. I'm attempting to disable it.
JANEWAY: You're sending a message to the Nazis.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Step away, or I'll kill you.

[Sickbay]

HIROGEN MEDIC: What are you doing?
EMH: Ah, nothing, just running a diagnostic.
HIROGEN MEDIC: You've accessed the neural interface controls. Stop it
immediately.

[Kommandant's Office]

JANEWAY: I told you no more mistakes. You've just made your last one. Ah!
Seven.
SEVEN: Captain.

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]

NEELIX: Listen. A targ, just beyond that ridge.
ALPHA: You would hunt down a simple beast even in the midst of our
enemies?
NEELIX: There is no enemy as great as hunger!
ALPHA: Why am I being interrupted?

[Sickbay]

HIROGEN MEDIC: The holographic Doctor, he's disabled their Captain's
interface.
ALPHA [OC]: How?
HIROGEN MEDIC: I don't know, but I can't re-establish the link.
ALPHA: Send a team

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]

ALPHA: to Holodeck one. Remove her from the simulation.

[Kommandant's Office]

SEVEN: Hirogen hunters.
JANEWAY: Internal scans show thirteen of them on this holodeck.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

CHAKOTAY: Need a hand, buddy? Captain Miller, Fifth Armoured Infantry.
TUVOK: Welcome to Sainte Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Get me artillery unit Charlie One. Take up positions along this
street and start laying down fire.

[Kommandant's Office]

SEVEN: The Americans have arrived.

[Bridge]

ALPHA: You circumvented our control. How?
KIM: Go to hell!

[Le Coeur de Lion]

TORRES: Bobby!
PARIS: You owe me a postcard.

[Street]

CHAKOTAY: Distance eight hundred yards. Correct for crosswinds. Fire at
will. Take cover, boys! Charlie One isn't known for accuracy!

[Kommandant's Office]

JANEWAY: I can't access the ship's systems Didn't you say this was Nazi
headquarters?
SEVEN: I did.
JANEWAY: Then it would stand to reason this building is being targeted.
Let's get out of here.

[Bridge]

ALPHA: What happened?
KIM: There was a simulated explosion in Holodeck one. Somehow it blew out
the hologrid across three decks.
ALPHA: Is the programme still running?
KIM: Yes.

[Sainte Claire - Street]

TUVOK: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a bunker. All units, listen up. We've just blown the
lid off of some kind of secret Nazi compound. Converge on my position.
We're going in.

[Bridge]

KIM: The breach opened the simulation into the surrounding sections. I'm
picking up holographic soldiers moving onto deck five.
ALPHA: Shut down the holo-emitters until we can regain control!
KIM: I can't. The programme controls are offline. You wanted a war? Looks
like you've got one.

To Be Continued


Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.
