Title: Q2
Stardate: 54704.5
Original Airdate: April 11, 2001


[Ready room]

ICHEB: Though it was a blatant violation of the Prime Directive, Kirk
saved the Pelosians from extinction, just as he had the Baezians and the
Chenari many years earlier. Finally, in the year 2270, Kirk completed his
historic five year mission and one of the greatest chapters in Starfleet
history came to a close. A new chapter began when Kirk regained command
of the Enterprise.
JANEWAY: How many more chapters are there?
ICHEB: Thirty four.
JANEWAY: This was supposed to be a twenty minute presentation.
ICHEB: I was trying to be thorough. I could shorten the report.
JANEWAY: That won't be necessary. You obviously know the subject matter.
Congratulations, cadet. You have just passed Early Starfleet History.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. (leaves)
Q2: I would have failed him. Kirk may have been a lowly human, but at
least he had pizzazz. That report made him sound about as exciting as a
Vulcan funeral dirge.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.
Q2: Don't bother. I trapped your crew in a temporal loop. They keep
experiencing the last thirty seconds over and over. Almost as monotonous
as drone boy's essay.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
Q: I know he's grown since you last saw him, Kathy, but don't tell me you
can't see the family resemblance. This is my son, Q. I'm a little hurt
you didn't recognise Junior. You are his godmother, after all.
JANEWAY: The last time I saw him, he was an infant.
Q2: Four years ago, in human time. You called me adorable.
JANEWAY: You remember?
Q2: I may have looked like an infant, but I was still a Q. Maybe you
should have picked a better godparent.
Q: I wonder if it's too late to ask Jean-Luc?
JANEWAY: What do you want, Q?
Q: Well, Junior's taking a little vacation from the Continuum. I
recommended he spent it with you.
JANEWAY: Why?
Q: Oh, he's always been fascinated by the old man's stories about
humanity. I thought it was time he had some first hand experience.
JANEWAY: I am flattered that you would entrust me with your first-born,
but I really don't have time.
Q: He's as quiet as a Zizznian church-mouse. You'll forget he's even
here. (disappears)
JANEWAY: Well, if you're going to stay, we'll need to lay down a few
ground-rules.
Q2: I make my own rules. (disappears)

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm not detecting either Q.
JANEWAY: I want to be alerted if they resurface. Keep running scans.
Q2: Scan, scan, scan. That's all you people ever do. I've been through
every deck on this ship, and do you know what I've seen? Bipeds pushing
buttons, bipeds replacing relays, bipeds running diagnostics. When are
you going to do something interesting?
JANEWAY: Say hello to Q, everyone.
Q2: We could fly into Fluidic space and fight species 8472, or we could
detonate a few Omega molecules. What do you say?
JANEWAY: No.
Q2: Twenty minutes observing humanity, I'm already bored. I guess I'm
just going to have to amuse myself. (disappears)
TORRES [OC]: Torres to the Captain. I need you in Engineering.

[Engineering]

(strobe lighting, dancing girls, beat music)
Q2: One dance, B'Elanna, that's all I ask. One dance.
TORRES: If he doesn't stop his little light show, the warp core's going
to breach.
Q2: Relax, it's a party.
JANEWAY: This party is over. Get your guests off my ship.
Q2: I like you, Aunt Kathy. You've got gumption, but what you don't have
is unlimited control of space, matter and time, which means I give the
orders around here. (snaps fingers)

[Corridor]

TUVOK: I could assemble a security team and attempt to take Engineering
by force.
CHAKOTAY: We all know that wouldn't do any good.
TORRES: Besides, I'll bet that's exactly the kind of reaction he's hoping
for.
JANEWAY: He's doing everything he can to get under our skin.
TUVOK: If we deny him the satisfaction of a response, he may become bored
and return to the Continuum.

[Cargo Bay two]  

(Seven of Nine's clothes vanish)
Q2: Talk about perfection.
SEVEN: If you're attempting to embarrass me, you won't succeed.
Q2: I'm just observing humanity. Aren't you going to scamper away, make
some futile attempt to cover yourself? (returns her clothes and leaves)

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: (to replicator) Coffee, black.
COMPUTER: Make it yourself.
NEELIX: You can thank Q's son. He thought the computer needed more
personality.
JANEWAY: Charming.
NEELIX: I've been giving some thought to the Q situation. Maybe ignoring
him isn't the best solution.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
NEELIX: He may be omnipotent, but he's still a young man in need of
guidance. Perhaps if someone were to approach him as a friend?
JANEWAY: You think he needs a mentor.
NEELIX: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Are you volunteering?
NEELIX: Well, I am good with children.
JANEWAY: Q is no ordinary child.
NEELIX: I'm no ordinary mentor.

[Astrometrics lab]

(watching a space fight on the screen, sitting in an easy chair)
Q2: Can I help you, kitchen rat?
NEELIX: I thought you and I could spend some time together.
Q2: Ah! Excellent manoeuvre.
NEELIX: What are you watching?
Q2: What's it look like? It's a battle between the Bojians and Wingarii.
NEELIX: We past through that region a few months ago. They were at peace.
Q2: Not any more. Watch this. (snaps fingers and brings another vessel
into the fight)
NEELIX: You have to stop this.
Q2: It's not like there's anything else to do.
NEELIX: We could play kadis-kot.
Q2: Are there explosions in kadis-kot?
NEELIX: Well, no.
Q2: Then I'm not interested.
NEELIX: Instead of hurting people, maybe you could help them. The
Wingarii are suffering a food shortage on their world. Maybe you could
use your powers to
Q2: You know what, Talaxian? You talk to much.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His jaw's been fused and his vocal cords removed. I might be able to
undo some of the cosmetic damage, but only Q can restore his voice.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Bridge. Report.
Q2 [OC]: I've got a surprise for you, Captain. Come see.

[Bridge]

Q2: Q said I should pay attention to how you humans react under pressure.
(three attacking Borg Cubes on the viewscreen)
Q2: Is this enough pressure?
CHAKOTAY: We're venting plasma.
JANEWAY: Re-route power to aft shields and return fire.
Q2: You're just prolonging the inevitable.
JANEWAY: We've defeated the Borg before, we'll do it again.
Q2: Not this time.
TUVOK: Weapons are offline.
PARIS: I'm losing thrusters.
KIM: Shields are down.
(Borg beam in and are about to assimilate Janeway when - flash!)
Q2: We were just getting to the good part!
Q: If the Continuum's told you once, they've told you a thousand times.
Don't provoke the Borg! Now, I want you to give Aunt Kathy your word you
won't do it again.
JANEWAY: Oh, he won't do it again because he's leaving. Now.
Q: Excuse us, son. The grown-ups need a moment in private.

[Ready room]

Q: He isn't so bad once you get to know him. He's just misunderstood.
JANEWAY: He tried to kill my crew!
Q: No one was hurt, I repaired the damage to your ship. I even gave your
pet Talaxian his vocal cords back. Everything's exactly as it was.
JANEWAY: And how long do you think it will take your son to come up with
another way to amuse himself? If you knew he was dangerous, why did you
send him here? Ah, is this another lesson for humanity?
Q: It's supposed to be a lesson for him. Think back to my last visit. I
made you the offer of a lifetime.
JANEWAY: Asking me to mate with you was hardly the offer of a lifetime.
Q: If you hadn't turned me down I wouldn't have been forced to mate with
that other Q.
JANEWAY: Oh, get to the point.
Q: My point is, Junior was suppose to inspire peace and compassion, but
instead of order he's brought chaos. He's been starting wars among
innocent species, tampering with primordial gene pools, punching holes in
the fabric of space-time.
JANEWAY: Where's his mother been during all this?
Q: She's been so humiliated by his antics she's disowned him. She's
blamed me for everything. I've managed to undo most of the damage, but
that wasn't good enough for the Continuum. They're hounding me to
straighten the boy out. That's why I brought him here, in hopes that your
vaunted Starfleet ideals would rub off on him. Obviously, that hasn't
happened.
JANEWAY: You can't just dump your child on someone and hope he learns
something.
Q: I can't?
JANEWAY: He needs to be parented.
Q: And how exactly am I supposed to do that? Q is the first child born in
the Continuum, which makes me the first parent. I don't even know where
to begin.
JANEWAY: You could start by spending time with him.
Q: Urgh.
JANEWAY: Parenthood is more than just cleaning up your child's messes.
You need to set an example. It's the only way he'll learn.
Q: Of course. Once he begins to know me better, he'll idolize me. Then
he'll do anything I say. Kathy (kisses her) you're a genius. (disappears)

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've made a full sensor sweep. There's no sign of any more Borg
vessels.
JANEWAY: The boy?
CHAKOTAY: He's gone.
JANEWAY: I am going to my quarters. You have the Bridge.

[Janeway's quarters - in the bath]

Q: I take it back. You're not a genius. I should have known better than
to take the advice of a human.
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: Your brilliant plan didn't work. I smothered the boy with attention,
spent every waking moment with him, but things only got worse.
JANEWAY: You've been gone for less than ten minutes.
Q: On your temporal plain, maybe, but in Q-time we've spent years
together. Now he's embarrassed to be seen with me, and it's all your
fault.
JANEWAY: My fault?
Q: Tell me how you plan to rectify the situation.
JANEWAY: What happened after you left Voyager?
Q: Q got away from me and rearranged to tectonic plates on Bosel Prime.
JANEWAY: Did you punish him?
Q: Well I tried to get him to apologise to all sixteen billion
Bosellians, but he got angry and stopped talking to me.
JANEWAY: So you gave in to him.
Q: I told him he could shift as many continents as he liked as long as
no-one got hurt.
JANEWAY: You're not going to do your son any favours by indulging him.
You need to make him understand that there are consequences to his
actions.
Q: Consequences? Hmm. Kathy, I take it back. You are a genius. (leans
forward for a kiss, gets offered the sole of her foot)

[Sickbay]

Q: I think that's long enough. (snaps fingers)
Q2: What was that for!
Q: What's wrong? You didn't enjoy life as an Oprelian amoeba?
Q2: No, I was shapeless and slimy. The only thing to eat was paramecia.
Q: Sounds unpleasant. I'm sure you'll do whatever you can to avoid
returning to that petrie dish.
Q2: What are you talking about?
Q: The Continuum and I have come to an agreement about your future.
Either you become an upstanding citizen of the cosmos, or you'll be
sentenced to eternity as a amoeba. How's that for consequences.
Q2: You'd turn your own son into a microscopic lifeform?
Q: You have one week to change your ways. I suggest you make the most of
it.
Q2: Fine, I'll see you in seven days. (snaps fingers, nothing happens)
Q: We've temporarily relieved you of your powers, to ensure that you're
on your best behaviour with the Captain.
Q2: You're leaving me here?
JANEWAY: I though we agreed that you were going to take a more active
role.
Q: I'd like to, Kathy, but we both know that you're a million times the
parent I am.
JANEWAY: I'm not a parent.
Q: Maybe not in the biological sense, but you're certainly a mommy to
this crew. Just look how quickly you house-broke that Borg drone.
JANEWAY: It's taken years for Seven to become an individual. You're
asking me to change your son in one week.
Q: I'm sure you'll think of something.
Q2: What if she doesn't?
Q: Then it's single-cellular city for you, my boy. (disappears)
Q2: I'm getting off this ship.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: What you no longer have, Q, is unlimited control of space,
matter and time. Which means I give the orders around here. Do I make
myself clear? Your quarters.

[Q2's quarters]

Q2: The petrie dish was less cramped.
JANEWAY: Get some sleep. You're going to need it.
Q2: What for?
JANEWAY: I'm preparing a curriculum for you to follow while you're here.
You're going to learn respect, (removes pips from his uniform collar) and
responsibility.
Q2: Don't tell me you're actually going through with Q's plan.
JANEWAY: I may not approve of his methods, but for once his heart seems
to be in the right place. I think his desire to help you is genuine.
Q2: He abandoned me on an antiquated flying machine run by primates.
JANEWAY: We primates are your only hope.
Q2: Seven days? How hard can it be.

[Astrometrics lab]

TUVOK: Seven of Nine will be instructing you in Spatial Causality. You
will learn how your actions can have widespread repercussions.
Q2: I read the PADD. You're going to tell me how I can't create anomaly A
without causing phenomenon B which in turn affects civilisation C, right?
(Tuvok leaves)
ICHEB: I'm Icheb.
Q2: Oh, I know who you are. You're the drone with the Kirk fixation.
SEVEN: You would be wise to follow Icheb's example. By applying himself,
he's become a valued member of this crew.
Q2: Can I see you naked again?

[Corridor outside Holodeck]

CHAKOTAY: Computer, run Diplomacy scenario twelve alpha.
NAUSICAAN [OC]: The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
CHAKOTAY: After you.
NAUSICAAN [OC]: Come anywhere near it and we'll attack you.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]

BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We've as much right to mine that
dilithium as you do.
NAUSICAAN: What are you doing here, Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme. I assume you're familiar with these
species?
Q2: Nausicaan, Bolian, Cardassian, Romulan, Ferengi and Bajoran.
CHAKOTAY: They're fighting over the mining rights to a planetoid. Your
job is to settle the dispute.
Q2: These aliens mean nothing to me. What do I care if they can't get
along?
CHAKOTAY: One of your responsibilities as a Q is to maintain order in the
universe, right?
Q2: So I've been told.
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you can't help these races come to an agreement there
might be a war. The Alpha Quadrant would be thrown into chaos. Why don't
we try running the first scenario together?
Q2: I don't need your help. I can do this myself.
CHAKOTAY: If you want to try, be my guest. I'll be back in thirty minutes
to check on your progress, and remember, security is right outside.
(leaves)
Q2: Computer, resume programme.
NAUSICAAN: The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We have as much right to mine that
dilithium as you do.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: Aren't you supposed to be supervising our young guest?
CHAKOTAY: He says he doesn't need supervision.
JANEWAY: And you accepted that?
CHAKOTAY: Of course not. I'm just giving him a chance to fail. Then he'll
have to ask for some help.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a good strategy. Let me know how it goes.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]

Q2: Settling the planetoid predicament didn't take very long so I used
the rest of the time to convince the Cardassian to apologise for the
occupation of Bajor. How's that for order in the universe?

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Welcome. It's so nice to see you this evening. I hope you're
hungry. Step right up, there's plenty for everyone. Enjoy!
Q2: (in apron, serving the food) Do you ever stop?
NEELIX: Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot my talking annoys you. Too bad you can't
just shut me up again, huh? Crewman Biddle, where have you been hiding
yourself? I haven't seen you in days.
Q2: If it isn't drone boy. You come to put me to sleep with another one
of your presentations?
ICHEB: Actually, I was wondering if you'd like to participate in some
recreational activities.
Q2: I don't have the time. Aunt Kathy's forcing me to write an historical
essay on the Q Continuum.
ICHEB: That's a challenging subject.
Q2: I've never written an essay before. I don't know where to start.
ICHEB: The origin of the Q seems like the most logical place, followed by
an analysis of their interaction with humanity. You could conclude with a
description of the events that lead you to Voyager.
Q2: Would you mind writing some of this down for me?
ICHEB: I'll get a PADD.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Insightful, informative. I'm impressed. Too bad you didn't write
it.
Q2: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I'd recognise Icheb's style anywhere.
Q2: He gave me a few notes on my first draft, that's all. I negotiated a
peace treaty between six belligerent species in just thirteen minutes.
JANEWAY: When Commander Chakotay left the room you altered their
personality subroutines to make them more agreeable. We may be common
bipeds but we're not stupid. Your training is over. Go back to your room
and wait for your father to return.
Q2: If you don't help me the Continuum will turn me into an amoeba.
JANEWAY: I wanted to help you, but instead of trying to live up to your
potential, you cheated.
Q2: Do you think it's easy to live up to my potential? I was supposed to
be the saviour of the Q Continuum. Tell me, how do you save a race that's
already omnipotent?
JANEWAY: Those were the Q's expectations, not mine. All I asked was that
you make a sincere effort, but you weren't even willing to try.
Q2: Please, Aunt Kathy, you're my only hope.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm glad you finally realised that. Now, if your motives are
sincere I'm willing to give you another chance, but step out of line
again and I'm through with you. Understood?
Q2: Understood.
JANEWAY: Dismissed!

Captain's log, stardate 54704.5. It's been four days since my ultimatum
to the young Q, and he appears to be making progress. His instructors
inform me that he's taking on his assignments with new determination, and
he's made a concerted effort to be more courteous to the crew. It's hard
to believe this is the same brazen young man who came aboard a few days
ago.

[Mess hall]

Q2: Captain, this is for you. It's a new draft of my essay. I know you
didn't ask for one but I felt I owed it to you for giving me a second
chance.
JANEWAY: I, Q. An insider's view of the Continuum. If the essay's half as
clever as the title I'm sure I'll enjoy it.
ICHEB: Lieutenant Paris has offered to give me a piloting lesson. I
thought you might like to join us.
Q2: Thanks, but I have to help Crewman Chell scrub the plasma conduits.
JANEWAY: I think you've earned a break. This is the only time off I'm
giving you. I suggest you take advantage of it.
Q2: Yes, ma'am. Piloting lesson, huh? Where are we going?

[Delta Flyer]

(Icheb is piloting through an asteroid belt)
PARIS: Steady, ease up a little on the thrusters.
Q2: In case you forgot, I'm mortal now. I'd appreciate it if you didn't
fly us into a rock.
ICHEB: Maybe Q could take over for a little while.
PARIS: What do you say, you want a turn at the wheel?
Q2: Ordinarily a Q wouldn't demean himself by operating primitive
machinery, but these aren't ordinary circumstances. (an alarm sounds) Did
I do something wrong?
PARIS: Just a little ion imbalance in the impulse drive. Nothing to worry
about.
Q2: Well, it's very distracting. Can't you fix it?
PARIS: I could, but we'd have to go back to Voyager and run diagnostics.
If you two don't mind cutting your lesson a little short?
Q2: That won't be necessary. In fact I barely hear it any more. Do you
hear it?
ICHEB: Hear what?

[Corridor]

(turbolift door opens)
Q: Going up?
JANEWAY: I'll catch the next one. (walks on)
Q: You can't get away from me that easily.
JANEWAY: It's only been five days. Why are you back?
Q: Oh, I thought I'd just pop in and check on Junior. I'm not an entirely
uninvolved father, you know.
JANEWAY: Well, he got off to a pretty shaky start, but he's made some
progress since then.
Q: Really?
JANEWAY: He's been working extremely hard.
Q: We're talking about the same Q?
JANEWAY: If you don't believe me, maybe you should see for yourself.

[Ready room]

Q2: The Continuum has been perceived in a variety of ways. A dreary
desert road, a blood-soaked battle ground, but with the help of Voyager's
crew I've begun to perceive it in another context. A home. I look forward
to the day when I return there and make that perception a reality.
JANEWAY: Well? What did you think?
Q: Oh, it's very nice.
JANEWAY: Nice?
Q: Yes. I especially liked the part about the Continuum.
JANEWAY: The entire essay was about the Continuum.
Q: Yes, and it's very nice.
Q2: I'm late for my temporal mechanics lesson. (leaves)
JANEWAY: Q.
Q: Well, if there's nothing else, I'll be on my way.
JANEWAY: He worked so hard on that paper, the least you could have done
was tell him you were proud of him.
Q: But I'm not, and frankly it's a little hard to be impressed with any
of the boy's accomplishments. He's been here for five days and what have
you taught him? How to scribble essays and play with holograms. What's
next, basket weaving?
JANEWAY: Whether you're willing to admit it or not, your son has made
progress here. He has the potential to be a better Q than you will ever
be.
Q: Potential isn't going to be enough for the Continuum.
JANEWAY: Then what will be enough?
Q: The boy needs to demonstrate nothing less than exemplary Q-ness.
JANEWAY: And what exactly is Q-ness?
Q: Oh, it's impossible for your miniscule mind to comprehend, but I know
Q-ness when I see it and this (picks up PADD) is not it.

[Q2's quarters]

Q2: Come in.
JANEWAY: I wanted to see how you were.
Q2: I'm perfectly fine. Why wouldn't I be?
JANEWAY: I thought you might be upset by Q's reaction to your essay.
Q2: He's impossible to please. I don't care what he thinks.
JANEWAY: We have two days left. Let's make the most of them.
Q2: Aunt Kathy, do you think the Continuum will be any more impressed
with me than Q was? That's what I thought.
JANEWAY: If the Continuum decides they won't take you back, I'll ask them
to let you stay here.
Q2: I don't think they care where an amoeba spends eternity.
JANEWAY: That's not what I meant. I'll ask them to let you remain human.
Q2: I appreciate that, but I don't want to be human. I want to be a Q,
like my father.

[Jefferies tube]

Q2: Itchy, are you in here? Itchy?
ICHEB: What can I do for you, Q-ball?
Q2: I need your help. Remember that ion imbalance Lieutenant Paris
mentioned during our lesson? We're going to repair it for him.
ICHEB: Did you get permission?
Q2: That would ruin the surprise.
ICHEB: Surprise?
Q2: The Captain's been encouraging me to take more initiative. I want to
show her I can do things for others without being asked.
ICHEB: I'll help you, on one condition.
Q2: Name it.
ICHEB: You will not refer to me as Itchy in front of the senior officers.

[Delta Flyer]

ICHEB: I've realigned the last pair of power couplings. You can start the
pre-ignition sequence.
Q2: Understood.
ICHEB: I'm not detecting any ion fluctuations. We did it. You can power
down the engine now. Q, what are you doing?
Q2: You're going to love this. I once learned how to open a spatial
flexure using nothing more than a deflector array.
ICHEB: Flexure?
Q2: It's like a tunnel through space. I'm going to open one to the
Klovari system. Wait till you see the females. Spectacular!
ICHEB: We need the Captain's permission to leave Voyager.
Q2: Do you think she'd give it to us?
ICHEB: No.
Q2: Then there's no point in asking.
ICHEB: You've been doing so well. Why break the rules now?
Q2: I'm bored.
ICHEB: Icheb to Security.
Q2: They can't hear you. I've dampened all outgoing communications.
(there's also a forcefield between the two teenagers) Just sit back,
Itchy. Enjoy the ride.
ICHEB: What's the real reason you're doing this?
Q2: I'm getting out of here before my father can put me back in that
petrie dish.
ICHEB: The Q are omnipotent. They'll find you.
Q2: I may not have my powers anymore, but I know plenty of cosmic nooks
and crannies we can hide in. Voyager's locked onto us with a tractor
beam. That's so predictable.

[Bridge]

KIM: They're opening some sort of spatial rift off their port bow.
TUVOK: It's disrupting the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: They're gone.

[Delta Flyer]

Q2: Welcome to the Klovari system. What would you like to do first? Take
a dip with the mermaids of Golos Prime, challenge the Warrior Goddess of
Fektar to a grappling contest?
ICHEB: What I want is to return to Voyager.
Q2: Forget that dreary ship, with it's rules and regulations. We can do
anything we want here.
ICHEB: Go back to Voyager, apologise to the Captain. She'll help you.
Q2: It's too late. She said one more violation and I'd be thrown off her
ship. I'm pretty sure this qualifies.
ICHEB: What's wrong?
Q2: There's a vessel approaching.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: You're trespassing in Chokuzan space.
Q2: We were just leaving.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Our laws require that you be incarcerated pending
an investigation.
Q2: How long will that take?
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Disengage your engines and prepare to be boarded.
ICHEB: We should do as he says.
Q2: Why? Just because he has a bigger ship?
ICHEB: Because Captain Janeway has taught us to respect the laws of other
cultures.
Q2: I should have known better than to bring you along.
ICHEB: You're going to get us killed!
Q2: Did you expect me to surrender? He might have locked us up for years.
ICHEB: You don't know that.
Q2: There's no time for debate. I need you at tactical. (lowers
forcefield)
ICHEB: Shields are down to thirty percent. Sixteen percent.
Q2: I'm opening another flexure. We'll go to the Zozak system. The girls
there aren't as attractive but we have to make some compromises. (Icheb
gets zapped with an energy weapon as they enter the flexure) Icheb!

[Bridge]

TUVOK: I'm detecting another rift forming approximately five thousand
kilometres directly ahead. A vessel is emerging.
JANEWAY: It's the Flyer.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
Q2 [on viewscreen]: Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: Don't you Aunt Kathy me.
Q2 [on viewscreen]: You can yell at me later. We need to get Icheb to
Sickbay.

[Sickbay]

EMH: His cells are being necrotised by some form of omicron radiation,
but I can't treat his injuries without knowing more about the weapon that
caused them.
Q: Is this a bad time?
JANEWAY: Tell him.
Q2: Icheb stole a shuttle from Voyager. I tried to stop him but he
kidnapped me and he started a fight with another ship.
JANEWAY: He stole the shuttle and he attacked the other vessel.
Q: Is that true, son?
Q2: Please, Q, just save him.
Q: Don't be absurd.
Q2: You're not going to help him?
Q: Like Aunt Kathy said, you're never going to learn anything if you
don't face the consequences of your actions. If your little playmate has
to die to teach you a lesson, so be it. (disappears)
Q2: I know you can hear me, Q. Come back! Q!
JANEWAY: You're wasting your time.
Q2: He's the only one who can save Icheb.
JANEWAY: No, he isn't. You're going back to that ship you attacked,
you're going to apologise for what you did, and you're going to plead
with him for the information we need to save Icheb.
Q2: Look at what they did to him. If I go back they'll do the same to me.
EMH: What do you care? By this time tomorrow you'll be an amoeba.
Q2: Well I'd rather be an amoeba than a corpse!
JANEWAY: That would be easier, wouldn't it. No expectations to live up
to, no one to disappoint.
Q2: I'm a failure as a Q and a human. If I'm a single celled organism at
least I can't hurt anybody.
JANEWAY: Why did you come back here?
Q2: To escape the Chokuzan.
JANEWAY: You could have used your technology to take you anywhere but you
came back here, to us. Why?
Q2: I probably hit the wrong control. Icheb is the only friend I've ever
had. I brought him back here because I thought you could save him.
Obviously I was mistaken.
JANEWAY: The only mistake you made was running away. You have a chance to
do the right thing now. Don't waste it.

[Delta Flyer]

(having found the Chokuzan ship again)
Q2: The attack on your vessel was entirely my fault. Icheb had nothing to
do with it, but he's the one who's dying. I take full responsibility for
what happened. I'll do anything you ask, just help my friend.
JANEWAY: My crew and I will repair any damage he did to your ship.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Are you the adult responsible for this child?
JANEWAY: I suppose I am.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: We'll accept his apology and give you the
information you need to save his accomplice, but you will be punished for
their crime.
Q2: She didn't have anything to do with it.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: In our culture adults are accountable for the
actions of their children.
Q2: I attacked your ship. I should be punished for it, not her.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: You don't even know what the punishment is. It
might be torture, or even execution.
Q2: I don't care, if it means saving my friend.
ALIEN [on viewscreen]: Well done, Junior. I'm proud of you. (flash and
it's Q on the screen) Surprise! (flash and he's on the Flyer, laughing) I
wish you could see the look on your faces. Oh, wait. You can. (gives them
mirrors)
Q2: We don't have time for your games. We need to find the real people I
attacked.
Q: You just did. I was the Chokuzan you fired on.
JANEWAY: What kind of horrible joke.
Q: Not a joke, a test. I knew the pathetic little exercises you had him
performing would not impress the Continuum, so, when he escaped your
clutches I devised a real test. It was touch and go there for a moment,
but you passed with flying colours.
JANEWAY: What about Icheb?
Q: Your Doctor will discover he's made a miraculous recovery. Now then,
if we're all finished here it's Judgment Day for Junior.

[Mess hall as Q judgment tribunal]

Q: We're ready, your Honour.
JUDGE: In the case of the Continuum versus Q, we the Continuum find that
Q has not made sufficient progress to warrant the reinstatement of his
powers.
Q: Objection. What about my test?
JUDGE: What about it?
Q: Q was willing to sacrifice himself to save his friend. Surely that
counts for something?
JUDGE: It was Q who endangered the boy's life in the first place.
However, in deference to the aforementioned act of contrition, the
defendant will not be transformed into an Oprelian amoeba. Instead, he
will suffer the next worst fate. Remaining human. Court is adjourned.
(tribunal disappears)
Q: This is an outrage! They can't do this to me! (disappears)

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in.
Q2: Do you have a moment? A few days ago you offered to let me remain on
Voyager. I know I've made a few mistakes since then, and you probably
don't want me around but, if it's all right with you, I'd like to
continue my training.
JANEWAY: But you have nothing left to prove to the Continuum.
Q2: There's a lot I still need to prove to you.
JANEWAY: What about your father?
Q2: You don't honestly believe we'll see him again, do you? He obviously
doesn't want me around. Why else would he have left me here, twice.
Q: The question you should be asking is, why I keep coming back. Now, I'm
sorry I left so abruptly but the Continuum's verdict demanded an
immediate appeal. I told them I refused to belong to any Continuum that
wouldn't accept my son as a member. We're a package deal.
Q2: You left the Continuum for me?
Q: Oh, don't be ridiculous. I'm the only one holding that place together,
and when they realised they might lose me, they crumbled like a Gelbian
sand sculpture.
Q2: They're going to return my powers?
Q: They already have.
Q2: (conjures up a bouquet) For you, Captain. For all your help.
JANEWAY: Thank you. (notices the room is full of roses now)
Q: Now that you're a Q again, I thought we might spend some quality time
together. I want to show you the cosmos the way it was meant to be seen.
Q2: We've tried that already.
Q: Things'll be different this time, I promise. Now run along. I'll meet
you on Golos Prime after I've had a few moments alone with the Captain.
Q2: I'll see you soon, Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: I certainly hope so. (Q2 disappears) So, the Continuum crumbled
like a Gelbian sand sculpture?
Q: Yes. Some of them even got on their knees and begged me to stay. It
was pathetic. If you must know, I had to agree to a few minor conditions.
JANEWAY: Oh? Such as?
Q: Eternal custody of the boy. Wherever the little brat goes, I go with
him.
JANEWAY: I hope he won't spoil too much of your fun.
Q: Oh, before I leave. (gives her a PADD) I did a little homework for
you. Consider it a thank you for everything you did for Junior.
JANEWAY: Not that I don't appreciate it, but this will only take a few
years off our journey. Why not send us all the way?
Q: What sort of an example would I be setting for my son if I did all the
work for you?



Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.

