Title: Worst Case Scenario
Stardate: 50971.5
Original Airdate: 14 May, 1997


[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
TORRES: The bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
TORRES: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
TORRES: Not bad, I guess.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
TORRES: No more than usual.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy
years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache. I get the
impression a lot of the crew agrees with me. Maquis and Starfleet.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge. So, what do you think?
TORRES: About what?
CHAKOTAY: About what I've been saying. That a lot of the crew aren't too
happy with our chief of security. And for that matter, I don't think
Captain Janeway's winning any popularity contests either. Don't you agree?
TORRES: Why do I get the feeling that you're testing me?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I'm interested in your opinion.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: You're a good officer. I like you. And I wouldn't want to see
you get hurt.
TORRES: Computer, halt turbolift. Look, what's this all about?
CHAKOTAY: There're going to be some changes around here. All of the
Maquis are in line, and about twenty five of the Starfleet crew are with
us.
TORRES: Are you saying there's going to be a mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: And when the shooting starts, I'm going to need to know which
side you're on.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry,
Captain, I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
PARIS [OC]: Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
PARIS [OC]: The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
JANEWAY: On my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to
take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be
less friendly than they seem?
TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the
Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are
still adapting to your duties as first officer. Under the circumstances,
I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to
justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but
Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in
twenty four hours.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's
shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down those transporters and start that
diagnostic we've been putting off.
KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the
Commander tells you.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors, Ensign?
TORRES: I'm working on it, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.  Wait here.
TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
TUVOK: Sir, Captain Janeway's shuttle has gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
TUVOK: Sir?
KIM: Red alert! Security to the Bridge!
CHAKOTAY: You're wasting your time, Harry. All my teams have taken
control of Security, Engineering and all key systems.
KIM: You'll never get away with this. People will fight back.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. All your off-duty
Starfleet friends have been locked down in quarters. I guess you've made
your choice.
JONAS [OC]: Jonas to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JONAS [OC]: They're putting up a fight on deck two. We could use some
help.
CHAKOTAY: Carlson, O'Donnell, get these people to the brig. Ayala, take
the conn and move us out of com range of Janeway's shuttle. You're with
me.

[Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Deck two. Thanks for watching my back in there.
TORRES: Right.
CHAKOTAY: Are you okay?
TORRES: To tell you the truth, shooting Harry got me a little rattled.
CHAKOTAY: He's only stunned. We're not going to kill anybody today,
unless it's absolutely necessary. Just stay close.

[Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Stay low.
TORRES: They've got us pinned down.
CHAKOTAY: We'll just have to shoot our way past them. Ready?
TORRES: Seska!
SESKA: It's just like old times, isn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks for the help.
SESKA: We've got to get moving. Some of Janeway's people are trying to
set up a command centre in the mess hall.

[Mess hall]

SESKA: I wouldn't do that if I were you. This phaser's set on wide beam.
I could take you all in one shot.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody, drop your weapons.
NEELIX: You heard the man. Drop your weapons. Don't look so surprised,
Commander. I know a winner when I see one. I'm with you.
SESKA: Do you want me to shoot him?
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need a cook. Chakotay to Engineering.
What's your status?
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter Rooms 1 and 2, status.
CREWMAN [OC]: Transporter Room 1 is under control.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Transporter Room 2 is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Shuttlebay, status.
CREWMAN [OC]: Shuttlebay is secured, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take care of the prisoners here. You two get some help and
start rounding up the personnel that are still locked down in quarters.
Bring them to Cargo Bay 1.
SESKA: We did it.
CHAKOTAY: Just like old times.

[Corridor]

SESKA: You did a good job today.
TORRES: Thanks.
SESKA: Just make sure you keep it up.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
SESKA: It means I'm not as easy to win over as Chakotay. Come on! Let's
go.  Wait here.

[Kes's quarters]

KES: Seska, what's going on?
SESKA: Move it.
KES: Why are we being treated like prisoners?
SESKA: No talking.

[Cargo Bay]

SESKA: Over there, with the rest of them.
KES: What are you going to do with us?
SESKA: I said, no talking!
TORRES: Hey, hey, hey. Take it easy.
SESKA: Told you it was a mistake letting Starfleet people in on this.
CHAKOTAY: Now is not the time, Seska. Take a good look around you. You're
under armed guard. You may also notice that your senior officers aren't
here. They're in the brig. They'll be put off the ship at the first
habitable planet we come to. All except Janeway and Paris, who will
arrive at their rendezvous co-ordinates to find that Voyager's not there.
In short, I've taken control of the ship. I don't blame any of you for
the mistakes of your leaders, so I'm giving you a choice. You can be put
off the ship with your superiors or you can do what Neelix and some of
your other crew members have already done and join me. If you do, you'll
be part of a crew that's going to do whatever it takes to get us home as
fast as possible. Under my command, we won't let almighty Federation
principles get in the way of opportunities the way Janeway did when she
destroyed the array that could have gotten us home. And we won't be
wasting precious time stopping to investigate every insignificant anomaly
that we come across. What we will do is use any means necessary to
acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To hell with Starfleet
regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on here?
TORRES: Computer, freeze programme. Are you in the habit of just walking
in on people's private holodeck time?
PARIS: Well, it's not as if I caught you dancing the rumba with a naked
Bolian. We had a lunch date. Remember?
TORRES: Is it lunch time already? I must have lost track of the time.
PARIS: Well, I expected to find you shooting pool at Sandrine's, not
hanging out with Seska. What sort of programme is this anyway?
TORRES: It's really something. I was doing a routine purge of the data
base, you know, taking out old files that were taking up space, and I
found this holonovel. It's a kind of 'what if' story, all about a Maquis
mutiny. It's completely compelling and believable. I guess it's because
it's all about us.
PARIS: Who wrote it?
TORRES: Now, that is the big mystery. Whoever the author is has gone to a
lot of trouble to keep his identity a secret. It's been encrypted.
PARIS: Why do you suppose someone would try so hard to be anonymous?
TORRES: Well, think about it. Whoever plays this programme takes on the
role of a Starfleet security officer who gets approached by Chakotay to
help the Maquis take over the ship. I mean, it's pretty inflammatory.
PARIS: You think we should tell the Captain?
TORRES: Probably.
PARIS: It would be pretty hard for us to give her a full report if we
don't know how the story ends.
TORRES: Excellent point.
PARIS: Great. Can you reset it for me?
TORRES: You? I was just getting to the good part.
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. Be a sport. I've got to be back on duty in
less than an hour. Besides, isn't half the fun of a holonovel having
someone to talk it over with?
TORRES: All right. You owe me one.

[Holographic Corridor]

CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
PARIS: The Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
PARIS: I was kind of hoping you would.
CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
PARIS: Couldn't be better.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
PARIS: Oh! Doesn't he always?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy
years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache.
PARIS: Not to mention an upset stomach.

[Holographic Turbolift]

CHAKOTAY: Bridge.
PARIS: I hear you're planning a mutiny.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, halt turbolift. Who told you that?
PARIS: Let's just say there are rumours.
CHAKOTAY: Yeah, well, don't believe everything you hear.
PARIS: Of course not. I just wanted you to know that whatever happens,
I'm with you.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, resume turbolift.
PARIS: I'm serious. Just tell me what you want me to do.
CHAKOTAY: All right, Ensign, here it is. As soon as the captain leaves to
meet the Rukani, I want you to put all crew quarters on lock-down. I'll
ask you if you've finished upgrading the internal sensors. If you say
yes, I'll know we're ready to go.
PARIS: I understand.
CHAKOTAY: I'm watching you. No tricks.

[Holographic Bridge]

TUVOK: We are entering the Rukani sector, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Inform the Captain.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry,
Captain. I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
PARIS [OC]: Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
PARIS [OC]: The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
JANEWAY: On my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to
take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be
less friendly than they seem?
TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the
Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are
still adapting to your duties as first officer. Under the circumstances,
I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to
justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but
Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in
twenty four hours.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's
shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down the transporters and start that
diagnostic we've been putting off.
KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the
Commander tells you.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors?
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.  Wait here.
TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
TUVOK: The Captain's shuttle has gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
TUVOK: Sir?
PARIS: Tuvok, get down!
CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
PARIS: It's not over yet, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Take them all to the brig.

[Holographic Brig]

PARIS: Sir, we have to do something.
TUVOK: What did you have in mind, Ensign?
PARIS: Escape. Retake the ship.
TUVOK: We will indeed attempt to do so when the time is right.
PARIS: What about trying it now?
TUVOK: Such a foolhardy proposal suggests a lack of proper training. Need
I remind you that we are confined behind an electrostatic force field?
PARIS: We can't just sit here and do nothing.
TUVOK: We are hardly doing nothing. We are observing the enemy, watching
for any discernible patterns in their procedures, looking for any
weakness in their defences.
PARIS: How long is this observing business going to take? It's been over
an hour already. I'm getting bored.
TUVOK: I am not concerned with your amusement, Ensign. We are in a crisis
situation, and we will follow procedure. And procedure dictates that we
wait for the right opportunity to attempt an escape, whether it takes an
hour or a week.
PARIS: A week?  Who wrote this stuff?
CHAKOTAY: Hold Kim and Tuvok here. Bring the rest of them to cargo bay
one.
PARIS:  Enjoy the wait.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

CHAKOTAY: And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate
every insignificant anomaly we come across. What we will do is use any
means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To
hell with Starfleet regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your
minds.
PARIS: I don't need fifteen minutes. I'm with you right now.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: So by the time I got around to joining Chakotay's little band of
rebels
TORRES: Ah-ha.
PARIS: he was so suspicious of my motives that he assigned me to
lubricate the warp plasma manifolds.
TORRES: You should have tried going along with the mutiny from the
beginning. It's much more fun.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, next time I will.
NEELIX: I couldn't help overhearing. You two are talking about the new
holonovel. I tried sending an encoded message to Captain Janeway's
shuttle to warn her about the mutiny. But Chakotay caught me, phasered
me, and the programme reset. Next time, I'm going to pretend to go along
with the conspirators and then stage a counterstrike.
PARIS: I thought we were going to keep this our little secret.
TORRES: Don't look at me. I didn't tell him.
NEELIX: I heard about it from the Doctor.
PARIS: The Doctor?
TORRES: I may have let it slip while I was running his weekly diagnostic.
PARIS: Oh, great. Who else knows about it?
NEELIX: Don't worry about me. My lips are sealed.
KIM: So what's this Ayala tells me about a new holonovel?
PARIS: Get in line, Harry.

Lieutenant Paris's personal log: Stardate 50953.4. I've decided to take
B'Elanna's advice and replay the holonovel, this time as a full-fledged
member of Chakotay's team of mutineers. I hope it turns out better than
before.

[Holographic Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Where the hell are those warp engines?
SESKA: They're still off-line. We can't seem to get the dilithium matrix
reinitialised.
CHAKOTAY: It's been two days.
SESKA: Don't worry. B'Elanna's on it.
CHAKOTAY: Run a full security sweep. Something tells me there's more to
this engine problem than a faulty dilithium matrix.
PARIS: Do you think we've got a saboteur on board?
SESKA: There's a ship approaching, bearing two one six mark three three.
It's Janeway's shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.  Hello, Kathryn. How did it go with the Rukani?
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: You're out of uniform, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: There have been a few changes since you've been gone.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: So I've heard. You think I don't have any
friends left on Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently, you do. But I'll find them.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: And then what? Will you kill them or just put
them off the ship?
CHAKOTAY: Nobody has to die here today.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I thought you were a man of your word, Chakotay.
I guess I was mistaken.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry it had to come to this. But the crew believes I can
get them home faster than you can.
PARIS [on viewscreen]: That's going to be a little difficult without warp
engines, isn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Our warp drive may be temporarily off-line, but our weapons
systems are fully operational.
PARIS: They're powering phasers.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, don't try to be a hero. I've been reasonable so far.
I'll allow you to keep the shuttle. I'll even transport you some extra
provisions. But if you don't stand down, I will destroy your shuttle.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: You've just threatened the wrong woman, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: What does she think she's going to accomplish?
SESKA: We can obliterate them in one shot.
CHAKOTAY: Not till I give the order. Reopen a channel.
PARIS: I don't know how, but they've disabled our shields. We're
completely vulnerable.
CHAKOTAY: Target their warp core and fire.
SESKA: I always said Janeway was a fool.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert on Deck 8.
PARIS: It's Paris and Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: Janeway's no fool. She tricked us into destroying her shuttle,
then transported over while the shields were down.
SESKA: She's trying to free the prisoners.
CHAKOTAY: You've got the bridge. You're with me.

[Holographic Brig]

CHAKOTAY:  Get away from that panel!
PARIS:  Drop it.

[Holodeck]

PARIS: Computer, resume programme.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.
PARIS: Well, start it up again, right where it left off.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Why not?
COMPUTER: Additional narrative parameters have not been programmed.
PARIS: Are you saying there's no more story?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
PARIS: This is someone's idea of a practical joke, right?
COMPUTER: Please rephrase the question.

TORRES: There. I've bypassed the security override. Try it now.
PARIS: Computer, identify the author of holographic programme entitled
Insurrection Alpha.
COMPUTER: That information is classified.
TORRES: I've tried every decryption protocol I can think of. Whoever
wrote this is good.
PARIS: Not to mention sadistic. I can't believe we've been left hanging
like this.
NEELIX: Any luck? Me neither. I've discreetly questioned everybody I
thought I could trust. Either nobody knows or nobody's talking.
PARIS: Remember the good old days when it was impossible to keep a secret
on a ship this small?

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: Well, if that takes care of our official agenda, there's another
matter I'd like to discuss. Commander Chakotay informs me there's a new
holonovel that's become quite popular among the crew.
CHAKOTAY: It's been accessed forty seven times by thirty three different
crew members.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose anyone here is familiar with what we're talking
about?
TORRES: Um, actually, er, Captain, I'm the one who found it on the
auxiliary data base.
PARIS: I've been running it too.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else?
JANEWAY: I understand that the author of this little opus has chosen to
remain anonymous. Perhaps because of the controversial nature of the
story, which depicts Commander Chakotay as the leader of a Maquis mutiny.
Well, now that the cat's out of the bag, I want each of you to talk to
your staff and find out who our anonymous author is.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. I am the author of the programme
in question.
PARIS: You, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: I never knew you had literary aspirations.
NEELIX: Not to mention talent. What a story!
TUVOK: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. The programme is not a
holonovel. It is a tactical training scenario. When you first invited the
Maquis to join our crew, I believed that mutiny was a very real
possibility. With that in mind, I began to write a training programme for
junior security officers to prepare them for such an eventuality.
PARIS: But you never finished it?
TUVOK: No. As the two crews began to work together, I concluded that the
threat of an insurrection was increasingly unlikely. I realised the
programme itself might exacerbate the very conflict I sought to avoid.
Therefore, I deleted the scenario, or so I believed.
JANEWAY: Apparently you didn't account for B'Elanna's exceptional
computer skills.
TUVOK: Nor her somewhat excessive curiosity. I apologise for my
carelessness, Captain.
PARIS: Forget your carelessness. What you should be apologising for is
leaving us all hanging by a thread. You've got to finish the story.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Paris. The programme has the potential to
incite animosity among the crew and must be permanently deleted. I have
no doubt the captain concurs.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Mister Tuvok, loosen up. You may have
intended this programme to be a tactical training tool, but it looks to
me like it's turned into a bit of harmless fun.
TUVOK: As the Captain of this ship, surely you
JANEWAY: I'm more than just a Captain. I'm the leader of a community, and
communities need entertainment, culture, creative outlets. Since we're
not exactly privy to every new piece of music or holonovel that's written
back home, I think it's only natural that we should start creating our
own.
CHAKOTAY: Besides, Tuvok, if the crew doesn't get an ending, you may have
a real mutiny on your hands.
PARIS: If Tuvok doesn't want to finish the story, I volunteer.
TORRES: Oh?
PARIS: Well, I've always wanted to write a holonovel. I think I could
make it pretty exciting.
JANEWAY: Good. Then it's settled. I, for one, can't wait to see if
Captain Janeway manages to outwit the conspirators.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: Well, if it isn't Mister Anonymous. Come to check up on your
replacement?
TUVOK: Since the captain insists on allowing you to proceed with this
frivolous exercise, I thought you might benefit from the original
probability studies I conducted before beginning the scenario.
PARIS: Well, thanks, Tuvok, but I don't need any probability studies. I'm
just sort of making it up as I go along.
TUVOK: Indeed. I'd be curious to know what you've made up thus far.
PARIS: Well, I was thinking, Paris and Janeway retake the ship and then
she decides to execute all the conspirators.
TUVOK: That is an entirely implausible plot development. Captain Janeway
would never behave in such an inhumane manner.
PARIS: This isn't real life, Tuvok. It's fiction. Don't get so caught up
in logic.
TUVOK: Logic is an integral part of narrative structure. According to The
Dictates of Poetics by T'hain of Vulcan, a character's actions must flow
inexorably from his or her established traits.
PARIS: Well, I don't know anything about T'hain, but I do know what makes
an interesting story, and that's unexpected plot twists.
TUVOK: If you think I will allow you to turn this programme into a
parody, you are sorely mistaken.
PARIS: Are you saying that you're going to finish it yourself?
TORRES: Artistic differences?
TUVOK: I would hardly call Mister Paris's ideas artistic.
PARIS: Apparently, my instincts don't comply with the Vulcan Dictates of
Poetics.
TORRES: Well, I've got a couple of suggestions that might help. Now, up
until now the story's been nothing but action, which is fine. But what it
needs is a little heart, a little emotion.
TUVOK: We are not writing a romance novel, Lieutenant.
PARIS: We?
TUVOK: I've decided that your efforts would benefit from my collaboration.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: Listen, I don't care which one of you is writing this thing. All
I'm saying is that there is room in every good story for a little bit of
passion.
PARIS: You know, maybe you're on to something. I could add a steamy love
scene between the Starfleet conn officer and the Maquis engineer.
TORRES: Oh, that's realistic.
NEELIX: How about a fresh pot of coffee to keep those creative juices
flowing, eh?
PARIS: Thanks, Neelix.
NEELIX: While I'm here.
PARIS: Let me guess. You have a suggestion to make.
NEELIX: Of course not. I would never presume to interfere in the creative
process. It's more of a comment, really, about the Neelix character.
TUVOK: How surprising.
JANEWAY: He would never betray the captain the way he does in that story.
No offence, Mister Vulcan, but I don't think you understand my character
very well.
PARIS: Tuvok, did you forget to follow the Dictates of Poetics?
NEELIX: Perhaps we should find someplace quieter to work.
PARIS: Now, that's the first intelligent suggestion I've heard all
evening.

[Corridor]

TUVOK: I believe our first step should be to create a carefully
constructed outline of the remaining chapters.
PARIS: I told you, Tuvok. I'm just making it up as I go.
TUVOK: We cannot proceed without a carefully constructed outline.
PARIS: We.- There you go with that we stuff again. I don't remember
agreeing to let you help me.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that it was I who first began the scenario?
PARIS: And you think I'm compromising your creative vision?
TUVOK: In so many words, yes, and it is my duty to ensure that ship
security is not compromised by your creative vision.
PARIS: You had your chance to finish the story, and you wanted to delete
it.
TUVOK: True, but since that is no longer an option, I am now exercising
my prerogative as the original author.
PARIS: Look, Tuvok, for the last time, I don't need any help.

[Holodeck]

EMH: Ah, there you are. I have several brilliant ideas for upcoming
chapters of your holonovel, as well as a list of revisions and dialogue
changes that I believe will improve the earlier installments.
PARIS: I don't believe this.
EMH: No thanks are necessary. In addition, I'm prepared to offer my
expertise in the creation of holographic mise-en-scene.
TUVOK: Computer, override the EMH program's autonomous controls and
transfer him back to Sickbay.
EMH: Now, wait just a min
PARIS: Thanks, Tuvok. Now that I think about it, I'll take it from here.
TUVOK: You may find that difficult, since I'm the only one who can make
additions to the programme.
PARIS: All right, Tuvok. You win. We'll finish the story together.
TUVOK: That is a very rational decision, Mister Paris. Computer,
reinitiate the holographic programme entitled Insurrection Alpha,
security clearance Tuvok 4774.
COMPUTER: The programme has been reinitiated.
PARIS: The first thing we're going to change is that title.
TUVOK: Reformat the holo-matrix for the addition of new interactive
algorithms.
COMPUTER: The holo-matrix has been formatted.
TUVOK: Reopen the narrative parameters file.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we just lost power in both transporter rooms. The com went
down, and the holodeck systems are completely scrambled.

[Holographic Brig]

PARIS: What are we doing in the brig?
TUVOK: I have no idea. We haven't given the computer instructions to
create a location yet.
SESKA: Hello, Tuvok. I've been expecting you. If you can see me, you've
obviously reopened the narrative parameters file of the tactical scenario
you've been working on.
TUVOK: How do you know that? You're a hologram.
SESKA: That's right. A holographic representation of Seska, one of the
Maquis shipmates you betrayed. I would have thought all that time you
spent spying on us might have given you a little more insight into the
Maquis, but after looking over what you've already written, I can see you
need a little help. So I've created this representation of myself, to
guide you through the rest of the programme.
TUVOK: There is no more programme.
SESKA: There is now. I finished writing it for you, with a few revisions
of my own.
PARIS: Revisions?
SESKA: To start with, the holodeck is now sealed. Your friends will find
it very difficult to get you out of here. And the safety protocols are
off, which means if I shoot you, and I am going to shoot you, you'll die.
But not just yet. You've got ten seconds to run. Nine, eight
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
SESKA: Seven, six, five
TUVOK: Holodeck one to Bridge. Emergency transport.
SESKA: Oh, did I forget to tell you? The moment you restarted the
programme, the com system went down. Four, three
PARIS: I guess we better do what she says.
SESKA: Two, one.

[Holographic Corridor]

PARIS: You should never have crossed her, Tuvok.
TUVOK: She has been dead for over a year now. There would have been no
way to predict this turn of events.
PARIS: I guess we should have known Seska wouldn't let a little thing
like death stop her from getting even.
JANEWAY: Tuvok! Tom! In here.
PARIS: Captain?

[Holographic Transporter Room]

JANEWAY: We're going to have to transport to the cargo bay to free the
rest of the prisoners. It's safer than trying to make it on foot.
PARIS: She's a hologram too.
TUVOK: Apparently she believes we're here to help her retake the ship
from the mutineers.
PARIS: I say we play along. We could use all the help we can get against
Seska.
TUVOK: You're forgetting it was Seska who rewrote the scenario. For all
we know, she's programmed Captain Janeway to betray us.
PARIS: I suppose you have a better idea?
TUVOK: The safest course of action is to avoid participation of any kind.
Eventually, the real Captain will discover our predicament and shut down
the programme from the outside.
JANEWAY: Let's move!
CHAKOTAY: Hold it right there!
JANEWAY: Back off!
SESKA: Or what? You'll shoot us? Go right ahead.
JANEWAY: Whatever you say.
SESKA: Poor Kathryn. I guess nobody told her the phaser rifles from
storage locker three have been malfunctioning.
CHAKOTAY: You're an incredible woman, Seska.
SESKA: You see who's in charge now, don't you? So if I were you, I'd get
moving again. The program's not over.
TUVOK: We have no intention of participating in this exercise.
SESKA: You don't want to end up like your Captain, do you?
PARIS: You programmed all this. The malfunctioning phaser, the version of
Chakotay who's attracted to you. None of it's real.
SESKA: You hear that? He thinks this is a game. Show him he's wrong.
CHAKOTAY: I've been waiting a long time for this.
SESKA: Next time, you'll believe me when I tell you the safety protocols
are off. Now, you've got five seconds to start running again, or you'll
end up with more than a flesh wound.

[Holographic Corridor]

PARIS: So much for not playing along with Seska's programme.
TUVOK: Are you able to continue?
PARIS: I'll keep up. The question is, where are we going?
TUVOK: I have an idea.

[Holographic Sickbay]

PARIS: What's the point? This isn't the real sickbay.
TUVOK: I may be able to use some of this holographic equipment to treat
your wound. Besides, it's as good a place as any to hide from Seska.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PARIS: No emergency, Doc. I'm fine.
EMH: Nonsense. You have second-degree phaser burns. Please have a seat on
bio-bed one.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I'm telling you, I feel fine.
EMH: You require treatment. Twenty cc's nitric acid. A little proverbial
salt in the wound.
EMH:  You're looking well.
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you!
EMH: It was a pleasure treating you. Don't hesitate to call again.

[Holographic Corridor]

TUVOK: Are you all right, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Oh, just great. Maybe we can go to the mess hall now and let the
holographic Neelix burn my arm with a frying pan.
TUVOK: Your feeble attempt at wit notwithstanding, it does appear that
Seska has reprogrammed the holographic crew to torture us. I suggest we
avoid meeting any more of them.
SESKA [OC]: Seska to Tuvok. I know you can hear me.
PARIS: Oh, terrific.
SESKA [OC]: I just wanted to remind you that wherever you go, I'll find
you.
PARIS: I say we try the Jefferies tubes.
TUVOK: I concur.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, you're not going to believe this, but Seska caused these
cascade failures.
JANEWAY: Seska? How?
TORRES: What she lacked in loyalty she made up for in ingenuity.
According to the back-up computer logs, she got into Tuvok's scenario on
Stardate 48671 about a month before she left the ship. She programmed it
to cause all of these shutdowns the next time Tuvok reopened the
narrative parameters file, which he didn't do until today.
JANEWAY: Can we get them out?
TORRES: Seska laid booby-trapped subroutines everywhere. If we try to
open the holodeck doors, the power grid is rigged to explode.
KIM: And the transporters are still off-line.
JANEWAY: You said the narrative parameters file is open now?
KIM: Seska's revised programme is playing out as we speak.
JANEWAY: If Seska can rewrite Tuvok, maybe I can rewrite Seska.

[Holographic Jefferies tube]

PARIS: So, Tuvok, anything in the Dictates of Poetics about how to escape
from a ship full of insane holograms?
TUVOK: Your attempts at humour are hardly constructive, Mister Paris. 
The controls are jammed. I cannot close the hatch.
PARIS: Tuvok!  Where do you suppose this came from?
TUVOK: That is an intriguing question.
PARIS: Do you think Seska's toying with us? Taking us to the brink of
death again, then letting us live so she can keep torturing us?
TUVOK: I prefer a more optimistic interpretation. It is possible our
shipmates outside the holodeck have learned of our predicament and have
found a way to help us by making additions to the programme, such as that
plasma extinguisher.
PARIS: If you want to look on the bright side, I'm certainly not going to
argue with you. If they do know what's going on, why just hand us a
plasma extinguisher? Why not shut down the holo-grid, or change the
scenario?
TUVOK: I would imagine Seska has made it very difficult for anyone to
implement more than minor changes.
PARIS: Take a look at this.
[On display screen] - TRYING TO HELP YOU. GO TO WEAPONS LOCKER.
PARIS: You were right.
TUVOK: We must follow their instructions.
CHAKOTAY: Hello, boys.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY [on monitor]: What do you say we go for a little walk?
JANEWAY: Where did they come from?
TORRES: Seska's programme is adding new algorithms to counteract the
changes we're making.
JANEWAY: I need more access to the narrative subroutines.
TORRES: I can't get in.
JANEWAY: You better find a way, otherwise Tom and Tuvok aren't going to
make it out of there alive. It looks like Chakotay's taking them to the
holographic cargo bay.
TORRES: Torres to Kim. How are you coming with those transporters?

[Bridge]

KIM: Seska's programme has completely disabled the relay access ports.

[Engineering]

KIM [OC]: It's going to take a while to get Tom and Tuvok out of there.
JANEWAY: I guess that means I keep writing.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

CHAKOTAY: As you can see, the last of your comrades have been captured.
In case anybody had any doubts, it should be obvious by now that this is
no longer a Starfleet vessel.
SESKA: Bring Paris and Tuvok over here. You and you, bring your weapons.

[Engineering]

CHAKOTAY on monitor]: What are you doing?
SESKA [on monitor]: What do you think I'm doing? I'm going to execute
them right here.
JANEWAY: I need access to the character algorithms now!
TORRES: I'm on it.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

SESKA: Fire on my order.
CHAKOTAY: Belay that.
SESKA: What are you doing? We planned this!
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure it's necessary to kill them.
TUVOK:  If I'm not mistaken, the Chakotay hologram is undergoing some
sort of character change.
PARIS: Do you think they're trying to help us again?
SESKA: These two rodents betrayed us. They deserve to die!
TUVOK: Don't listen to her, Commander. You've taken the ship. There is no
need to add murder to your list of offences.
SESKA: Quiet!
CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapons.

[Engineering]

TORRES: It's working.
JANEWAY: Now, if I can just keep modifying the Chakotay hologram
SESKA [on monitor]: You're not going to lose your nerve, are you?

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

CHAKOTAY: We have what we want. There's no reason to kill them.
SESKA: Prepare to fire on my order!
CHAKOTAY: Seska! I'm in command of this operation.

[Engineering]

SESKA [on monitor]: Not anymore.
TORRES: I don't believe it. The programme is reconfiguring the
subprocessors to counter every change we make. No matter what we do, it
rewrites itself so that Tom and Tuvok will die.
JANEWAY: I'm not out of ideas yet.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

SESKA: Now, is there anyone else who wants to challenge my authority? 
Isn't their loyalty inspiring?  Set your phasers to kill.
PARIS: Don't listen to her.
SESKA: Fire on my order. What the hell was that?
TUVOK: Don't move, Seska.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Bridge to Seska. We're under attack by the Rukani.
SESKA: The Rukani?
PARIS: The people the captain and I were visiting while you were busy
taking over the ship. When we realised there was a mutiny in progress, we
called them for a little assistance.

[Engineering]

JANEWAY: Harry, have you got transporters yet?
KIM [OC]: Still working on it, Captain.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

SESKA: You're not getting this ship back.
TUVOK: That is a rather bold statement for someone in your position.
SESKA: Computer, initiate sixty seconds self-destruct sequence,
authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: This ship will self-destruct in sixty seconds.
TUVOK: Computer, belay that order, authorisation Tuvok 4774.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply, Voiceprint not recognised.
SESKA: If you don't hand over that phaser rifle, everyone on this ship is
going to be dead in
COMPUTER: Self-destruct in forty five seconds.

[Engineering]

TORRES: I don't know how she rigged it, Captain, but when she ordered the
self-destruct it initiated an overload in the holodeck power relays. The
whole grid is going to blow.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]

COMPUTER: Self-destruct in thirty seconds.
SESKA: Hand over the weapon, or the ship is going to be destroyed.
TUVOK: I have set this phaser to kill. If you do not deactivate the
self-destruct sequence, I will fire.
SESKA: I'm surprised at you, Tuvok. That's not very logical. If I'm dead,
who'll turn off the self-destruct?
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds to self-destruct. thirteen, twelve, eleven,
ten, nine
SESKA: Computer, terminate self-destruct sequence, authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: Self-destruct sequence has been terminated.
SESKA: Now call off your Rukani friends.
TUVOK: Do what she says.
PARIS: Tuvok
TUVOK: That's an order, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Paris to the Rukani vessel. Thank you for your assistance, but
everything's under control now.
SESKA: It is, isn't it? I guess if you want something done right, you've
got to do it yourself.
PARIS: Not bad.
TUVOK: Seska's not the only one who knows how to cause a phaser
malfunction.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.

[Engineering]

TORRES: It's over.
KIM [OC]: Kim to Engineering. I think I can give you transporters now,
Captain.
JANEWAY: That's all right, Harry. No rush.

[Mess hall]

JANEWAY: Here's to stories with happy endings.
TUVOK: I must say, Captain. Causing the alien ship to come to our aid was
a very effective plot development.
JANEWAY: Who says deus ex machina is an outdated literary device?
PARIS: I'm just glad you didn't come down with a case of writer's block.
TORRES: So, you two are going to have to come up with a new idea for your
next literary collaboration.
JANEWAY: What about doing a Western?
TORRES: Or a detective story?
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what kind of story it is, as long as I'm not the
bad guy this time.
NEELIX: I've got a great idea for a holonovel about a daring trader who
becomes a cook on a starship. Eventually, he rises
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, if Mister Paris and I do create another work of
holo-fiction, I assure you we will choose a subject much less close to
home. 



Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.

