Title: Future's End, Part 1
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: November 6 1996


[Earth - High Sierras - 1967]

RADIO: Demonstration at UC Santa Cruz campus last night. Tear gas was
used to disperse a crowd of three thousand angry students. The
temperature right now in down town Barstow is seventy five degrees
(shooting star falls to earth nearby)
STARLING: Far out!

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Come in! Oh, sorry Tuvok. I was just practicing my serve.
TUVOK: Your serve?
JANEWAY: Tennis. After 19 years I've decided to take it up again. I'm a
little rusty. I played in B'Elanna's tournament on the holodeck. I lost
my first match in straight sets.
TUVOK: Perhaps if you maintained eye contact with the ball at the apex of
it's trajectory your serve would be more effective.
JANEWAY: You play tennis?
TUVOK: Simple physics, Captain.
JANEWAY: Not as simple as when I played on the high school tennis team.
What can I do for you, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I've completed my monthly security evaluation. All systems and crew
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Red Alert! Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Some sort of spatial rift. It opened right in front of us.
JANEWAY: Analysis.
KIM: It's a distortion in the space-time continuum, but it's got a
graviton matrix. It's being artificially generated.
CHAKOTAY: By whom?
KIM: Sensors can't get inside. The distortion field's fluctuating.
Something's coming out.
TUVOK: It appears to be a small ship, approximately six metres in length.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
TUVOK: Sensors are reading one occupant - human. He is holding position
at the perimeter of the rift.
KIM: There's a subspace signature emanating from the ship. Captain, it's
Federation!
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: No response. They appear to be charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields up! Hail them again.
TUVOK: Shields are down.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
PARIS: Helm control is off line.
KIM: He's firing some kind of sub-atomic disruptor.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Full phasers. No effect.
KIM: Voyager's molecular structure is coming apart!
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, divert all available power to the deflector. Send out a
high energy polaron pulse. Might help to disrupt his weapon.
TUVOK: Emitting deflector pulse now.
KIM: It's working.
TUVOK: We are being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager, I'm Captain Braxton of the
Federation Timeship Aeon. I've come from twenty-ninth century Earth, five
hundred years into your future. Please disengage your deflector pulse.
JANEWAY: Why are you firing at us?
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Your vessel is responsible for a disaster in my
century. A temporal explosion that will destroy all Earth's solar system.
I've come back in time to prevent that occurrence. My mission is your
destruction. You must not resist.
JANEWAY: I'm going to need some more information before I allow
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Debris from your secondary hull was found in the
explosion.
JANEWAY: Captain, I simply
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: No time!
TUVOK: He's remodulating the sub-atomic disruptor. Our deflector is
losing power, it won't hold much longer.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if he's telling the truth.
JANEWAY: I won't sacrifice this crew based on a ten second conversation!
I need proof.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like we're going to get it.
JANEWAY: Adjust our deflector to try and match the frequency of his
weapon. Try to overload his emitter.
TUVOK: It seems to be working. His weapon is offline and his ship has
been damaged. The rift is destabilising and he's being pulled back inside.
JANEWAY: Re-establish helm control!
PARIS: I'm trying, Captain, but we seem to be caught in some kind of
graviton distortion. We're being pulled in too.
JANEWAY: Status.
TUVOK: Primary systems are coming back on-line. The weapons array and
power grid took heavy damage.
KIM: The temporal rift is closed.
CHAKOTAY: Where are we?
PARIS: Home.
CHAKOTAY: We just cut across half the galaxy!
JANEWAY: The rift must have originated here. Hail Starfleet Command.
TUVOK: No response on standard frequencies. Curious. I am picking up a
multitude of narrow band EM signals.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it. The question isn't where we are, it's when we
are. Mister Kim.
KIM: According to astrometric readings the year is 1996.
CHAKOTAY: The late twentieth century.
PARIS: Captain, they had surveillance satellites during this time.
JANEWAY: Maintain a high orbit and modulate the shields to scatter their
radar. We don't want to alarm the natives.
CHAKOTAY: What about the time ship? Is it here too?
TUVOK: There is no sign of the vessel in orbit. Scanning the planet
surface. I am picking up low frequency sub-space readings emanating from
the northern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: Sub-space technology shouldn't exist for another hundred years
or so.
JANEWAY: It could be our friend from the twenty-ninth century. Localise
it.
TUVOK: North American continent, Pacific coast, the city of Los Angeles.
JANEWAY: We've got to go down there. If it is Captain Braxton, he's the
key to all this, and at the moment his ship is the only way we have of
getting back to our own century. Chakotay, Tuvok, Paris, you're with me.
Mister Kim, you have the bridge.
KIM: Yes, Ma'am!
JANEWAY: As I recall, Tom, you're something of an aficionado on twentieth
century America.
Paris; That's right.
JANEWAY: What will we need to pass as locals in this era?
PARIS: Simple. Nice clothes, fast car and lots of money.

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

TUVOK: We could have worn our Starfleet uniforms. I doubt if anyone would
have noticed.
JANEWAY: The sub-space readings are coming from within a one hundred
metre radius of our position, but I can't pinpoint the source.
CHAKOTAY: I find it hard to believe a ship from the twenty-ninth century
could have landed on this beach without being noticed.
JANEWAY: We have no idea what kind of technology they might have in the
future. Maybe it's cloaked. Let's spread out. Tuvok, Paris, go check the
shoreline. Chakotay and I will search the boardwalk.
CHAKOTAY: Well Kathryn, you got us home.
JANEWAY: Right place, wrong time, but it is good to be back nonetheless.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should look up a few ancestors. As I recall, one of
them was a schoolteacher in Arizona.
JANEWAY: I don't know what my relatives were doing this far back in
history.
GIRL ON BLADES: Coming through. Sorry.
JANEWAY: For all I know, she could be my great, great, great, great
grandmother.
CHAKOTAY: She does have your legs.
JANEWAY: Have you ever been to southern California, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: After the Hermosa quake in 2047 this entire region sank under
two hundred metres of water. It became one of the world's largest coral
reefs, home to thousands of different marine species.
CHAKOTAY: Some interesting species in this century.

TUVOK: Sub-space readings are weaker here.
PARIS: Let's head up to the board walk. Ah, the sun feels great.
TUVOK: Thermal and ultraviolet radiation are at hazardous levels.
PARIS: Lighten up, Tuvok, this was a great time and place and we're
getting to see it first hand. Come on, take off your shirt.
TUVOK: And risk dermal displasia, no thank you.
Paris; Vulcans. Deep down you're all a bunch of hypochondriacs.

JANEWAY: The readings are coming from over there. Ten metres. There.
CHAKOTAY: So much for the time ship.
JANEWAY: There's no doubt about it. The sub-space readings are coming
from him.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: (watching the computer screen register something in orbit) No way.
Way.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: It's crap. The component density is too low, the voltage
variance is out of spec and I don't even like the colour.
Jim: But Mister Starling
STARLING: We've less than six months before we introduce the HyperPro PC
and with a chip like this driving it we'll have to change the name to
Edsel. I gave your company this contract because you're the best in the
business, next to us of course. Go home, Jim, lose some sleep over this.
I want a full report middle of next week. What am I doing, Dave?
DAVE [OC]: You are in a meeting sir.
STARLING: And?
DAVE [OC]: And I know I'm not supposed to interrupt, but there's a woman
calling on line three from the Griffith Observatory. Rain Robinson. She
say's it's urgent.
STARLING: Put her through. Henry Starling.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Hi, I don't know if you remember me. I'm one of the astronomers at
the SETI lab you're funding. We met at the Griffith restoration party.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Yes, yes, what it is?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Okay, well it was my understanding that you wanted to be notified
immediately if I ever picked up a gamma emission that matched the
frequency profile you gave me? Well I did, so I am.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Are you certain?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Positive. I tracked the emission and guess what, the source is in
orbit. It is right above us.

[Chronowerx -Starling's office]

When did it show up?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: According to the raw data, about ninety minutes ago. I'm not
picking up anything from the standard search parameters. Wow. That means
no one else knows there's something up there. We've got to tell somebody
about this. We've got to call NASA!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Rain, that's a little premature, don't you think? This could be
a close encounter but then again, could be a flock of geese.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Geese don't park themselves twenty thousand kilometres above North
America. Let's send a message up there, see if there's any response.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: No! No, we don't know what we've found, and until we do, I'm
not going to risk embarrassing myself, or your Observatory. Track the
emission, get more data and keep me informed. In the meantime I'm going
to put a bottle of champagne on ice. Do you think ET likes Chateau Coeur?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Well if he doesn't I've got a six-pack in the fridge.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Good work, Rain. Stay in touch.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

RAIN: Oh, what the hell. Anyone up there?

[Bridge]

TORRES: That trip through the rift is still affecting our primary
systems. Weapons are off-line, we blew three EPS conduits, and our main
transporter buffer just crashed.
KIM: We've got an away team down there.
TORRES: I know. We've still got emergency transporters but they're short
range.
KIM: How close to the surface would we have to get to beam them up?
TORRES: Pretty close. I'd say less than ten kilometres.
KIM: If we do that somebody's going to see us.
KAPLAN: Sir, I'm picking up an EM signal from the planet surface. It's
directed at our co-ordinates.
KIM: On screen.
SETI MESSAGE [on viewscreen]: Greetings from the people of Earth.
KAPLAN: Shall I respond Sir?
KIM: Absolutely not.

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

JANEWAY: He appears to live on the street. That pushcart seems to contain
all his belongings.
CHAKOTAY: From what we can tell he spends most of his time putting up
literature about the end of the world.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we've got a problem. We received a signal from the surface.
It looks like a standard

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

KIM [OC]: greeting designed for extraterrestrials.
JANEWAY: We've been detected.
KIM [OC]: It looks that way. We tracked the signal to

[Bridge]

KIM: an observatory about twenty kilometres from your location.

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

JANEWAY: Transport Paris and Tuvok to those co-ordinates.
KIM [OC]: I can't do that right now, not without going into a lower
orbit. The main pattern

[Bridge]

KIM: buffer is off-line. B'Elanna says it could take a couple of days to
repair
JANEWAY [OC]: In that case

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]

JANEWAY: transmit those co-ordinates to Mister Tuvok's tricorder. He and
Tom will have to get there using more conventional means.
KIM [OC]: Aye Captain, Kim out.
PARIS: Nobody walks in Los Angeles and they don't have much of a public
transportation system. We need some wheels.
JANEWAY: Do what you have to do. Find out who sent that message and get
more information. Have we been detected, how many people know about us.
We cannot risk contaminating the timeline.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
PARIS: See you later.

[Alleyway - Braxton's home]

BRAXTON: Who the hell are you! This is my stuff!
JANEWAY: It's all right, we don't want your stuff. We just want to ask
you a few questions.
BRAXTON: No, no, no, no, no more questions, no. No more surveys. Damn
social workers coming around all the time. No, I don't need your advice,
I don't need your... Voyager! This is all your fault, this is all your
doing!
JANEWAY: Captain Braxton?
BRAXTON: I told you to turn off your deflector pulse but you wouldn't
listen to me! Voyager. Fools!
JANEWAY: Captain, what's happened to you? The last time we saw you
BRAXTON: I was a younger man, confident in my mission. But you wouldn't
listen to me, no, you were too certain of yourselves!
CHAKOTAY: You were trying to destroy us.
BRAXTON: I was trying to save billions of lives. To stop a chain reaction
that started with Voyager! It's too late now. All things are set in
motion. The terrible explosion will occur! The end is coming! The
future's end.
JANEWAY: Captain, how long have you been here in the twentieth century?
BRAXTON: Too long. Thirty years. Too long.
CHAKOTAY: And yet we just arrived. Why?
BRAXTON: Pure chance. And when you knocked my navigational system off
course there's no telling where we may have ended up. Who's been here?
Who took my pencils? Oh, always something missing. Oh, always trying to
steal things. Oh greedy people. Post-industrial barbarians!
JANEWAY: Captain, we want to help you, but you've got to give us more
information. You said that Voyager causes the explosion.
BRAXTON: Yes. No, yes. That's the paradox my dear. A leads to B leads to
C leads to A. Juvenile minds. Oh, how can I make you understand, huh? A
is an explosion in the twenty-ninth century. Debris from Voyager's hull
is found in evidence. I go back in time to destroy you. B. You try to
stop me, disabling my weapon which causes me to crash-land back here in
the twentieth century. C. Someone in this century steals my timeship and
launches it. They go into the future and once there they make one
critical mistake which causes a terrible explosion that takes us all the
way back to A. There's an explosion in the twenty-ninth century - the
cycle of causality is complete!
JANEWAY: How do you know all this? What evidence do you have that it will
be your timeship that causes the disaster?
BRAXTON: Ah, I've spent thirty years answering that very question. Ah,
yes, when the explosion first happened, my sensors recorded a whole
variety of chronometric data. The pulses were highly chaotic. At first I
thought it was a warp core implosion, but then I found debris from
Voyager and my theory seemed to be confirmed. It was you. But then
someone here stole my timeship and it started to dawn on me. If someone
were to fly my timeship into the future without recalibrating the
temporal matrix then that could cause the kind of explosion that I
witnessed in the twenty-ninth century!
JANEWAY: So it really wasn't Voyager after all.
BRAXTON: No. No, no, I reconstructed all the chronometric data as best I
could remember it and it proved I was right. My ship causes the
catastrophe.
CHAKOTAY: Which raises the question, who has your timeship?
BRAXTON: Starling. Henry Starling, CEO Chronowerx Industries.
Philanthropist, entrepreneur, outstanding citizen, ha! When I crashed in
1967 I made an emergency beamout but he found my ship before I did in
some remote mountain range. I've been following this corrupt little man
ever since, tracking his movements. He's become too powerful. I can't get
close to him. Of course, you can't accomplish anything in this wretched
century. Nobody here listens. Do you know that once they put me in a
mental institution and filled me with primitive pharmaceuticals!
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can help you find Starling and your ship, and get us
back to where we belong.
BRAXTON: Oh, I wouldn't do that if I were you.
JANEWAY: Why not?
BRAXTON: Haven't you been listening? A leads to B
JANEWAY: Leads to C. Yes, we heard you. Why shouldn't we try to stop
Starling?
BRAXTON: Because somehow you're involved in the disaster. That's why I
found debris from Voyager's hull plate at the explosion. You will be
destroyed as well.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we know what's going to happen, we'll
POLICEMAN: Hey, Captain, how you doing? Understand you've been putting
these signs up around the city again.
BRAXTON: No, no no no, not me. I would never do that.
POLICEMAN: Why don't you walk over here and we can talk about it.
BRAXTON: Stay right where you are, quasi Cardassian totalitarian.
POLICEMAN: No need to get upset about this, we just want to talk to you
about the signs. Now, there've been a few people complaining.
BRAXTON: Captain, tell them I'm not crazy. Tell them I'm from the future.
They came from the future too, you know.
POLICEMAN: Okay.
BRAXTON: They came in on a starship.
POLICEMAN: Alright.
BRAXTON: Traitors!
JANEWAY: We'll have to worry about him later. Right now we've got to find
Starling.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: We're not quite at the Little Green Men stage yet, but believe
me, you'll be the first to know. What I think we have here is an
overenthusiastic young lady. I'm afraid she's exaggerating. We don't have
anything, not yet. Thank you, Professor. You know what that little brat
did? She emailed a friend of hers at JPL, who called his professor at
CalTech. She's a security risk. Go to Griffith, get the data, get rid of
her.
DUNBAR: Yes sir.
STARLING: Dunbar! If it's true, if they're here, it's only a matter of
time before they find me. There's no telling what capabilities they'll
have. You may have to use the weapon.
DUNBAR: I understand.

[Griffith Observatory - outside]

TUVOK: Perhaps we should find a more suitable parking place. This is,
after all, a stolen vehicle.
PARIS: Nobody's around, Tuvok. We're fine.
TUVOK: A taxi-cab would have been less worrisome and more ethical.
PARIS: We haven't stolen anything. We borrowed a car. We'll return it to
the dealership as soon as we can.
TUVOK: I was referring to the ethics of time travel.
PARIS: Somehow I doubt that taking a test drive is going to alter the
course of the universe.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]

PARIS: Over here. These are radio wave readouts. Looks like radio
telescope transmissions. Pretty basic.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, you are being careless.
PARIS: Tuvok!
TUVOK: I will not lighten up on this matter. Thus far I have tolerated
your impulsive methods. At times they have worked to our advantage. But
discretion is also a virtue. We must leave things exactly as they were.
PARIS: They've found us all right. The orbital schematic matches
Voyager's position.
TUVOK: According to this data, they are tracking the warp emissions from
our engines.
PARIS: Nobody in this century even knows what warp emission are!
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it appears they have configured their telescope to
scan for them.
RAIN: Excuse me. Do not enter, employees only, this sign on the door.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I think we're a little lost. We were on the museum tour
and we took a wrong turn at the Saturn exhibit.
TUVOK: Perhaps you could tell us how to get back to the lobby.
RAIN: Go right down the hall, take a left at Mars, right at Halley's
Comet and then just keep going straight ahead past the soda machine.
PARIS: This lab is pretty groovy.
RAIN: Groovy.
PARIS: What do you do here?
RAIN: We watch the skies.
PARIS: For what?
RAIN: Signs of extraterrestrial life. Nice meeting you..
PARIS: My name is Tom Paris, by the way.
RAIN: Rain Robinson.
PARIS: Your curves don't look so great.
RAIN: 'Scuse me?
PARIS: This is a Fourier spectral analysis?
RAIN: That's exactly what it is.
PARIS: You know, you might get better resolution if you adjust your
amplitude parameters.
RAIN: You're probably right
PARIS: Or you might try using a theta band filter.
RAIN: You know a lot for someone who can't find his way past Saturn.
PARIS: I majored in astrophysics.
RAIN: Where?
PARIS: Starfleet Academy.
RAIN: Never heard of it.
PARIS: East coast school. Orgy of the Walking Dead! That's a classic! Did
you see the sequel Bride of the Corpse?
RAIN: Let me guess. You minored in B-movies.
PARIS: Something like that.
TUVOK: Pardon me, Tom. We should be going. Our friends are waiting for us.
PARIS: Yeah, right Got to go.
RAIN: Hey, I do the planetarium show Tuesday nights, so er, you guys
should come by, check it out, bring your friends. 'The best stars in
Hollywood are right above us.'
PARIS: Yeah, great, but I think we're busy on Tuesday. Thanks anyway.
(they leave)
RAIN: No problem. (sees her PC crash and burn) Whoa!

[Griffith Observatory - outside]

TUVOK: I downloaded all of her data into the tricorder and disrupted her
data storage device.
PARIS: Good. I hope she doesn't get in any trouble.
TUVOK: It will simply look like a computer malfunction.
Paris; It's a shame though. She was about to make the biggest discovery
in human history. Could have changed her career.
TUVOK: And ended ours. I am curious, Lieutenant, what does it mean -
groovy?
RAIN: Hey! Hey you guys!
PARIS: Red alert!
RAIN: Hey! Hey! Just wait a minute! What the hell did you do to my
computer? It is screwed up! The hard drive is wiped!
PARIS: I don't have time to explain.
RAIN: Who are you people and what is that thing in your pants?
TUVOK: I beg your pardon?
RAIN: That little gadget you put in your pocket, what is it? Demagnetizer?
PARIS: Get down!
RAIN: What the hell?
PARIS: Do you have a car?
RAIN: Yeah, over there.
TUVOK: We need to use it.

Operations Officer's log, supplemental. We've been on full sensor alert
looking for signs that anyone else has detected Voyager. As a precaution,
I've also asked Neelix and Kes to monitor all media broadcasts.

[Mess hall]

KES: We've set up a computer algorithm to search for key words and
phrases. Anything that might indicate Voyager.
KIM: Anything so far?
NEELIX: Not yet, but we have come across some very intriguing televised
broadcasts. Take a look at this. It's a form of entertainment called a
'soap opera'. The exploration of human relationships is fascinating.
KIM: I can't imagine just watching the story and not being a part of it.
KES: That's because you've been spoiled by the holodeck. There's
something to be said for non-interactive stories like this, being swept
away in the narrative.
NEELIX: Oh, I can't wait to see if Blaine's twin brother is the father of
Jessica's baby.
KIM: Good work. Keep me informed, and don't get too swept away.
NEELIX: Er, aye sir.
SHARON [on monitor]; Nobody'll know the difference.
JACK [on monitor]: I'll know, Sharon. How can I face him knowing that our
son is his son?
SHARON [on monitor]: All you need to know Jack is that I love you!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

CHAKOTAY: So far so good. We haven't set off any alarms.
JANEWAY: Our Mister Starling has built himself quite a corporate empire.
Looks like he's got wealth, celebrity and an ego to match.
CHAKOTAY: I see you never learnt to type.
JANEWAY: Turn of the millennium technology wasn't a required course at
the Academy. It's like stone knives and bearskins.
CHAKOTAY: Well this isn't. I'm detecting a forcefield. I can't scan
beyond this wall. I don't see an access port or a control panel.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can find something in his computer. Oh, he's got a
massive database here, but it's protected by an encryption sequence. I'm
going to try interfacing my tricorder.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a series of pictographs. They must have used symbols
to represent the different functions of the computer.
JANEWAY: Let's see what Henry's been up to all these years.

[Rain's Camper Van]

TUVOK: The transtators were disrupted by that energy weapon. Our
communicators are useless.
PARIS: That means we can't call the - our friends. What do we do now?
RAIN: You're going to take a right at the next light and a left at the
taco stand because you're taking me home! And you're not keeping the van!
TUVOK: I am afraid that is not possible, Miss Robinson. Your life may be
in danger.
RAIN: I'm going to pop this hatch and I'm going to start screaming until
you tell me what's going on. Who are you? What is that thing in orbit?
Why did that guy try to kill us?
PARIS: I told you, we're secret agents.
RAIN: I'm opening the hatch.
PARIS: Look, we saved your life. Isn't it obvious we're on your side?
RAIN: I'm standing up. I'm taking a deep breath!
PARIS: Rain, you're not going to scream! I know you're frightened and
you've seen some pretty strange things, but you have to trust me! We're
not going to hurt you and I will explain everything. It's either that or
take your chances with the guy who tried to vaporize you.
RAIN: The UFO, what is it?
PARIS: It's a Soviet spy satellite. Part of a massive KGB operation.
We're trying to stop it.
RAIN: Soviet? The USSR broke up five years ago. The KGB doesn't even
exist anymore.
PARIS: That's what they'd like you to think.
TUVOK: Perhaps we've told her enough for now.
RAIN: What about you, Agent Tuvok? What's up with those ears? Thought I
didn't notice? I did. What about your weapons? What are they, lasers?
TUVOK: I'm sorry, that information is classified, and as for my ears -
they are a family trait.
PARIS: He's very sensitive about them.
RAIN: Whatever.
TUVOK: We must find a way to contact our friends.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

JANEWAY: Incredible. Starling's computer designs were inspired by
technology from the timeship. He introduced the very first isograted
circuit in 1969, two years after Braxton's ship crash-landed.
CHAKOTAY: Any every few years there's been an equally revolutionary
advance in computers, all from Chronowerx Industries, all based on
Starling's crude understanding of twenty-ninth century technology.
JANEWAY: Are you thinking what I'm thinking, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I wish I weren't.
JANEWAY: The computer age of the late twentieth century
CHAKOTAY: Shouldn't have happened.
JANEWAY: But it did, and it's part of our history. All because of that
timeship. Look at this - gantry, power conduits, telemetry consoles. This
looks like a design for a launching bay.
CHAKOTAY: Braxton was right, the ship's going to be launched.
JANEWAY: We've got to send these schematics to Voyager for analysis.
Janeway to Voyager.
Kim [OC] Kim here, Captain.
JANEWAY: We're in Starling's office. I want you to establish a comm. link
with my tricorder and try to upload his computer database.
KIM [OC]: Aye Captain. We'll need a few minutes to reconfigure to their
binary system.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Let's see if we can find out where the location of
that launch pad is.
CHAKOTAY: You're really getting the hang of this.
JANEWAY: I'm a quick study.
CHAKOTAY: You know, Captain, in a way Braxton was right. If we hadn't
fought him when he tried to destroy Voyager, he wouldn't have been pulled
back in time, his ship wouldn't have crash-landed on Earth, and none of
this would have happened.
JANEWAY: Time travel. Ever since my first day in the job as a Starfleet
Captain I swore I'm never let myself get caught in one of these
god-forsaken paradoxes. The future is the past, the past is the future.
It all gives me a headache.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. This looks promising. Try timeship security portal.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's linked to some kind of surveillance system. An image
of the launch bay would give us a clue as to it's location.
STARLING: I see you've made yourself at home. Welcome to the twentieth
century. I know who you are, you're from the future. I knew you'd come
back one day. I detected your vessel in orbit and Mister Dunbar here had
a run-in with your friends. You're here to take the timeship.
JANEWAY: Mister Starling, you're about to cause a terrible disaster that
will affect the twenty-ninth century. An explosion that will cost
billions of lives. We're here to stop you from doing that.
STARLING: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: If you launch that ship and travel to the future it will
destroy Earth's solar system.
STARLING: How do you know this?
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say we talked to the ship's previous owner. He
told us that if it's temporal matrix isn't precisely calibrated you'll
trigger a temporal explosion. That ship shouldn't be here. It belongs to
another century. We have to take it back.
STARLING: What's that?
JANEWAY: It's a communication device. Someone's trying to contact me.
STARLING: Answer it.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, we've established the comm. link. We're ready to upload on
your signal.
JANEWAY [OC]: Do it.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: My database! Stop or I'll kill your Captain.

[Bridge]

KIM: Who is this?

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: You've got five seconds.

[Bridge]

KIM: Break the link.
TORRES: Done.
KIM: What's our transporter status?
TORRES: The main pattern buffers are still off-line. We can try an
emergency transport from a lower orbit.
KIM: That's exactly what the Captain ordered us not to do. We'd be
risking detection.
TORRES: Harry, we can't worry about that now, their lives are in danger.
KIM: And if somebody sees a starship flying through the clouds?
TORRES: The Captain put you in charge. It is your decision.
KIM: Helm, get a fix on Chakotay and the Captain.
Man: Aye Sir.
KIM: B'Elanna, stand by emergency transporters. Get ready to beam them
directly to the bridge. Take us down.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: You've taken over three thousand gigabits of information,
including my launch plan. But that's not going to be a problem, Captain.
I'll make a few changes to my travel itinerary. You're not going to stop
me.
JANEWAY: If you don't give us that ship, we'll take it by force.
STARLING: In case you haven't noticed, I'm holding the gun.
JANEWAY: Not for long. I've got a starship in orbit that can vaporize
this entire building in the blink of an eye.
STARLING: And you along with it.
JANEWAY: If necessary.
STARLING: Captain, you've got some cohunes.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Helm, maintain present altitude. Keep us within transporter
range. Chakotay, see if you can disable the forcefield around that
timeship. B'Elanna, prepare to lock onto the timeship and beam it into
cargo bay two. Ensign Kim, you have an impeccable sense of timing. Not
bad for your first day in the big chair.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: The forcefield's down!
DUNBAR: Sir, the timeship!
STARLING: They're trying to teleport the ship!

[Bridge]

TORRES: The matter stream is modulating. He's disrupting transport!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]

STARLING: Yes!

[Bridge]

KIM: Captain, I don't understand how, but he's using our transporter beam
as a downlink. He's accessing our main computer.
TORRES: Every time I try to disable his downlink he comes up with a new
command override.
JANEWAY: Starling is using twenty ninth century technology against us. We
may not be able to keep up with him.
CHAKOTAY: Inertial dampers are offline. He's gotten into our propulsion
systems.
JANEWAY: Disengage transporters.
TORRES: Destabilising matter stream. Transporters off-line.
KIM: We've terminated the downlink, Captain, but he got at least twenty
percent of our main computer files.
JANEWAY: Get us back into orbit and I want a full damage report.
STARLING [OC]: Captain Janeway, Henry Starling here.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

STARLING: USS Voyager, Intrepid class, much bigger than I expected, and
much less advanced. Says here your ship was launched in the year 2371.
You're from the twenty-fourth century? And here all this time I though
you were from the twenty-ninth. Looks like I have the home field
advantage. Ooo, what's this?

[Bridge]

STARLING [OC]: Oh now this is interesting.
CHAKOTAY: Damage reports are coming in. Some minor power fluctuations in
the impulse drive and a few burned out circuits in the main computer
core. Nothing we can't handle.
KES [OC]: Sickbay to bridge. Captain, I can't find the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Is his programme off-line?
KES [OC]: No. His programme is gone.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]

EMH: Where am I?
DUNBAR: Who are you?
STARLING: Welcome.

[Mess hall]

NEELIX: Captain, this is Neelix. There's something on the television I
think you should see.

[Bridge]

NEELIX [OC]: It's a current events programme.
KIM: I asked Neelix to monitor Earth broadcasts. I'm transferring it to
the main viewer.
ANNOUNCER [OC]: Incredible footage was caught just an hour ago by a man
using his camcorder to tape a backyard barbeque. The massive
unidentifiable object doesn't appear to be a meteorite, weather balloon
or satellite and one aviation expert we've spoken to has stated that it's
definitely not any kind of US aircraft currently in use. We're waiting
investigation by local authorities and we'll keep you updated as news
develops on this occurrence.

To be continued...





Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.

