Title: Unimatrix Zero, Part 2
Stardate: 54014.4
Original Airdate: October 4, 2000


[Borg Cube]

TUVOK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'm all right.
TUVOK: You've been given a subvocal processor.
TORRES: I can live with it. The Captain?
TUVOK: We were separated. I don't know where they took her. We must
proceed to the central plexus.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Time.
PARIS: Seventeen minutes. We should have heard something by now.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor?
EMH: Their higher brain functions are stable.
KIM: The Cube's changing course. New heading, one twenty one mark six.
PARIS: Matching course and speed.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: the damage to their propulsion system is regenerating. They'll be
capable of transwarp in less than two hours.
CHAKOTAY: I want you inside Unimatrix Zero. When the virus is released
your friends there will be the first to know. Problem?
SEVEN: No, but I wouldn't call them my friends.
CHAKOTAY: Acquaintances then. If you're having issues with these people I
suggest you set them aside.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Unimatrix Zero]

KOROK: Tell your hunters to patrol the north-eastern perimeter. More
drones were spotted there.
HIROGEN: Understood.
KOROK: Where's that virus you promised?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is deploying it now.
KOROK: Good. The Borg have increased their attacks here. They're
identifying us one by one. If you're looking for your mate, he's not here.
SEVEN: He's not my mate. He must not be regenerating.
KOROK: That or he's dead. He should have been here hours ago. No one's
seen him. If he died in battle I'm sure it was honourable. Here, help me.
It's obvious your heart is in conflict.
SEVEN: My heart is functioning perfectly.
KOROK: Some advice from a warrior in the bedchamber as well as the
battlefield. At times like these you must treat your heart as the enemy
so you won't be distracted in battle.
SEVEN: I'll keep that in mind. Has the virus been deployed?
ALIEN MAN: I'm not sure.
SEVEN: Do you remember anything? Your location? What ship you're on?
ALIEN MAN: No, nothing.

[Borg Cube]

TORRES: The central plexus is through here. Those must be the shield
emitters that Seven told us about. We need to get through that hatch.
TUVOK: I will attempt to deactivate him. Captain.
JANEWAY: What's left of her. How are you holding up?
TORRES: Fine.
JANEWAY: I can't access the plexus without shutting down the power grid
for this section. That's bound to draw attention. Is there another way in?
TORRES: The primary access port. I think it's isolated from the main
power grid.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
TORRES: About thirty metres from here.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Tuvok. Commander.
TUVOK: I can hear the Collective.
JANEWAY: The neural suppressant must be wearing off.
TUVOK: I'll be all right.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: I heard him, the Vulcan, but he's gone. Why? Why can't I hear the
others?

[Unimatrix Zero - Forest]

(Seven gets caught in a net trap)
AXUM: Leave this one to me. Comfortable?
SEVEN: Release me.
AXUM: Easier said than done. I think I designed this trap a little too
well. What are you doing out here?
SEVEN: Looking for you. Korok was concerned.
AXUM: That doesn't sound like Korok.
SEVEN: He said you were missing.
AXUM: As you can see, I've been busy setting traps.
SEVEN: Not the most sophisticated technology.
AXUM: Seems to work. Hold on. (she falls into his arms)
SEVEN: I should return to the camp, wait for word on the virus.
AXUM: I'll go with you in case you run into any more trouble.
SEVEN: As you wish.
AXUM: I'm sure Korok will be glad to see me.

[Borg cube]

QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Commander?
TUVOK: Stardate 38774 Vulcanis lunar colony. The time and place of my
birth. Recalling the details of my life helps me remain focused. Captain,
if I succumb to the Collective I'll pose a security risk. You must be
prepared to deactivate me.
JANEWAY: Without the Doctor's help, that could kill you. Stay focused,
stay Tuvok. That's an order.
TORRES: Captain, I've bypassed the access codes. Welcome to the central
plexus.
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?

[Ready room]

PARIS: Busy?
CHAKOTAY: What's on your mind.
PARIS: The away team. The plan was to give them two hours. It's been two
and a half.
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's keeping an eye on them. We'll give it a little
more time. Unfortunately, not everything goes according to plan.
PARIS: You know, it occurs to me that, with you in command and Tuvok off
the ship, that makes me acting First Officer. Technically speaking.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
PARIS: Well, it's my duty to give you an opinion, and in my opinion I
think we should pull them out now before it's too late.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your diligence, but I've made my decision. We wait.
PARIS: How long? A day? A week?
CHAKOTAY: As long as it takes to complete the mission.
PARIS: This mission isn't worth their lives.
CHAKOTAY: You've made your point.
PARIS: Apparently not.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. A First Officer could get in a lot of trouble for
talking to his Captain that way.
PARIS: Well, I've learned from the best.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your concerns, Tom, but I need your support on
this.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

JANEWAY: Download the virus.
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok.
TUVOK My daughter's name is Asil. She was born in the city of

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN and TUVOK: T'Paal. We share your memories. You are part of us now.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

TUVOK: Don't resist.

[Bridge]

EMH: There's a problem with Commander Tuvok. His synaptic pathways are
destabilising.
CHAKOTAY: If I decide to move in closer, I assume my First Officer would
concur.
PARIS: You assume correctly.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

JANEWAY: We have to get out of this chamber and contact Voyager. You're
Commander Tuvok, Tactical Officer of the starship Voyager. I'm your
Captain. Step aside, that's an order.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: She's irrelevant.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]

TUVOK: Captain, you must deactivate me. (personal shield knocks her back)
My designation is three of twelve.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: Where are you, Tuvok? The central plexus.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Range, forty thousand kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Harry?
KIM: Too much shielding around the Central Plexus. I can't get a lock.
CHAKOTAY: Stay on it. Closer.

[Borg Cube]

TORRES: This way. (Tuvok knocks her down, then catches Janeway)

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: (watching Voyager on monitor) Back so soon?

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Target their shield generators. Stand by phasers.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Brace for impact.
KIM: Someone's accessing our tactical controls. Our shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres.
EMH: Sensors are offline. I've lost the away team.
KIM: Hull breaches, decks five, six, seven.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course.
PARIS: We can't just leave them.
CHAKOTAY: The Borg have our access codes. Get us out of here.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Thank you, Tuvok. I'm losing voices. Five in spatial grid ninety
six, twelve in grid one eight two. Hundreds now, thousands. I can't hear
you. Why can't I hear you? You've disconnected from the hive mind.
Explain. Comply.
DRONE: No! I'm not alone. You can't stop us all.

QUEEN: I altered the transmission to restore your original appearance. I
know now vain humans can be.
JANEWAY: Why am I here?
QUEEN: You've caused a great deal of suffering. I wanted you to see for
yourself. You are the cause of his death, Captain. You disconnected him
from the hive mind.
JANEWAY: You didn't have to kill him.
QUEEN: He was confused, irrational. I had no choice. Many more will die
unless you tell me how to counteract the virus.
JANEWAY: Sorry, we didn't think to develop an antidote.
BORG QUEEN: I'll assimilate Voyager, then. Your Doctor created the
pathogen. He can find a cure.
JANEWAY: My First Officer has orders to delete the Doctor's programme if
you go anywhere near Voyager. The resistance is already underway. It
won't be long before thousands of drones begin to fight back.
BORG QUEEN: They will fail.
JANEWAY: Maybe, probably, but a lot of damage will be done before they do.
BORG QUEEN: Yes, a lot of damage. Spatial grid nine four, cube six three
zero. Complement sixty four thousand drones, but I can no longer hear
three of them. No doubt they've joined your resistance. Are they trying
to sabotage the vessel and liberate others? I don't know because I can no
longer hear them. Initiate self-destruct. An effective solution, don't
you agree? Spatial grid zero nine one, sphere eight seven eight.
Complement eleven thousand drones. Only one is silent but I have no
choice. I must silence all of them. I know how this must upset you,
Captain. As a Starfleet officer you value all life, even drones. How many
more are you willing to sacrifice? Thousands? Millions? You can put an
end to this. I want you to go on a diplomatic mission. It's one of your
primary functions, isn't it? Negotiations?
JANEWAY: Go on.
BORG QUEEN: Tell them to rejoin the Collective, and I'll stop the
destruction.
JANEWAY: They will never agree to that.
BORG QUEEN: They're individuals now. They have a choice. What are you
afraid of, Captain? That they may co-operate? You've been waiting for a
chance to damage the Borg, now you've found one. You're only using them.
JANEWAY: If you really wanted to negotiate, you'd visit Unimatrix Zero.
You found a way to send drones. Surely you could go yourself, or are you
afraid that a taste of individuality might make you realise it is
something worth fighting for?
BORG QUEEN: Comply or you will be responsible for many more deaths.
JANEWAY: You'll have to destroy the entire Collective to find them all.

[Bridge]

SEVEN: Several drones have reported that they retained their memories of
Unimatrix Zero after their regeneration ended. The virus has been
deployed.
CHAKOTAY: Good. We're going to need all the help we can get. The away
team's still trapped on that cube.
KIM: And as you may have noticed we're in no shape to mount a rescue.
PARIS: Can you get back in? Find out if they have anybody else aboard
this cube?
CHAKOTAY: If they do, tell them to hurry. They're the only allies we've
got.
EMH: I'd like to make a few adjustments to your alcove before you return.

[Cargo Bay two]

EMH: When this crisis ends I'll come up with a more permanent solution so
you can spend more time in Unimatrix Zero. You're in a unique position.
Not many of us get to lead a double life.
SEVEN: When this crisis ends I intend to sever my link to Unimatrix Zero.
EMH: May I ask why?
SEVEN: I'm having difficulties with one of the people there.
EMH: Mister Axum? Whenever you mention his name your pupils dilate by
nearly a millimetre, blood flow increases to your facial capillaries.
Both are consistent with an emotional response.
SEVEN: Axum and I apparently had a relationship.
EMH: Oh. Romantic? There go those pupils again.
SEVEN: Your diagnosis is accurate.
EMH: Well, how ironic. All this time, we've been trying to develop that
aspect of your humanity and it's been there all along.
SEVEN: Not anymore.
EMH: My readings say otherwise. You're very particular about who you
choose to spend time with, Seven. No doubt that's why you and I have
become friends. If you were involved with Axum once, doesn't that suggest
he's a worthwhile individual?
SEVEN: He does possess commendable qualities.
EMH: Coming from you that's high praise. There's nothing wrong with
feeling ambivalent, Seven. After all, you're in the middle of a civil
war, but eventually you may want to give this romance a second chance.
Who knows, you may even get to meet him in person someday.
EMH: I'll say this for your Mister Axum. he's a very lucky man.

[Unimatrix Zero - settlement]

AXUM: The Collective has found a new way to attack us. Eleven ships have
self-destructed in the last three hours.
KOROK: We need to co-ordinate a battle plan. A way to strike at the heart
of the Collective.
AXUM: Our target should be the primary Unicomplex. If we can disrupt the
Queen's control of the hive mind it'll give us a chance to organise,
build up a fighting force.
SEVEN: There is one more objective. The Voyager away team.
KOROK: They fought like warriors. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten.
SEVEN: We can still rescue them.
AXUM: She's right. They risked their lives for us. Now it's our turn.
KOROK: There's no time.
AXUM: It's a matter of honour, Korok. I thought you of all people would
understand that.
KOROK: I'll see if any of our people are on a vessel near theirs.
SEVEN: Thank you.
AXUM: It's the least we can do.
SEVEN: What's wrong?
AXUM: It turns out I'm on a scout ship patrolling the border of fluidic
space, on the other side of the galaxy.
SEVEN: I was hoping we'd be able to meet one day, in the real world.
AXUM: Me too. There are things I can do where I am. I'll try to contact
species 8472. See if I can persuade them to join the fight.
SEVEN: Given their history with the Borg I'm sure they'll be eager. I
guess this rules out Vorothon Gorge.
AXUM: Gorge?
SEVEN: It was at the top of our list of things to see in the real world
if we were ever freed from the Collective. Don't you remember?
AXUM: We could add fluidic space to our list. We still have Unimatrix
Zero.
SEVEN: It was sufficient before.
AXUM: And now? (they kiss)

[Unimatrix Zero - forest]

ALIEN BOY: Where are you?
BOY: Over here.
QUEEN: Don't be frightened. Stand up, let me look at you. Comply
ALIEN BOY: You're one of the machine people. You're trying to hurt us.
QUEEN: That's the last thing I want to do. I'm here to help you. All of
you.
ALIEN BOY: They said you want to assim. Assima.
QUEEN: Assimilate you. Yes, but that's nothing to be afraid of. You like
having friends, don't you? Assimilation turns us all into friends. In
fact, it brings us so close together we can hear each other's thoughts.
ALIEN BOY: Is that fun?
QUEEN: Yes, it's fun. I was just about your age when I was assimilated. I
was worried then, too, but when I began to hear the others, hear their
thoughts, I wasn't afraid anymore.
ALIEN BOY: Don't you miss your parents?
QUEEN: They're here with me. Part of us. I can hear them right now. Would
you like to be with your parents? They miss you. They want to see you.
ALIEN BOY: Can I talk to them?
QUEEN: Soon, but first I'd like to see more of this.
ALIEN BOY: There's a place where you can see the whole forest.
QUEEN: Show me.
ALIEN BOY: It's pretty, isn't it?

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: I took your advice, Captain. I paid a visit to Unimatrix Zero.
It's far more primitive than I expected. I don't understand how anyone
could prefer a crude environment to Borg perfection.
JANEWAY: Spend a little more time there. You might find out.
QUEEN: I've seen enough. It's an illusion.
JANEWAY: Even so, the people who go there are real and they won't give it
up without a fight.
QUEEN: They'll fail. I thought you'd like to see our latest
accomplishment. Recognise it?
JANEWAY: No.
QUEEN: I think you do. It's your nanovirus, with a few modifications.
We've reprogrammed it to target your mutated drones. Once it's released
it will erode their autonomic functions. They will die within minutes.
JANEWAY: You have no way to deliver it. Those drones have been separated
from the hive mind. They aren't linked to the Central Plexus anymore.
QUEEN: No, but there's another way I can reach them. I'm prepared to go
back to Unimatrix Zero and release it myself. But I'm willing to
reconsider. It all depends on you.
JANEWAY: Me?
QUEEN: If they rejoin the Collective I'll spare their lives. They listen
to you. Tell them it's time to come home. You were responsible for many
deaths. Now you can save thousands. Decide.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Let's try this again. Ensign?
KIM: The warp core is online, navigational array, shields at twenty
percent.
NEELIX: We've got sensors, short-range only.
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Try to get a fix on the away team.
PARIS: Now what?
KIM: Someone's tapping into our holographic systems.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: It's a Borg signal.
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
EMH [OC]: Someone's here to see you and Seven, Commander. You'd better
come down here right away.

[Sickbay]

CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
JANEWAY: The Borg have established this link so I could propose a
compromise.
CHAKOTAY: We're listening.
JANEWAY: They've developed a nanovirus that can kill every Borg with the
mutation. They're prepared to release it inside Unimatrix Zero unless all
the drones there return to the Collective for reassimilation immediately.
SEVEN: That's not compromise, that's surrender.
JANEWAY: I won't be responsible for any more deaths. At least they'll
survive as drones. Tell them Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. That's
an order. Have I made myself clear, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Captain.
EMH: We did our best.
CHAKOTAY: It's not over yet, Doctor. Can you disrupt the interlink
frequency for Unimatrix Zero?
EMH: Commander, the Captain gave us a direct order.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, she did, but not the one you think. Seven?
SEVEN: I believe I can, but why?
CHAKOTAY: Didn't you hear? Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. Chakotay
to the Bridge. Report.

[Bridge]

PARIS: A transwarp conduit just opened off our port bow.
NEELIX: Lieutenant.
KIM: They're on an intercept course.
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres.
NEELIX: They're hailing us.
PARIS: Open a channel.
KOROK [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager, I am General Korok. This vessel
is now under my command. We've come to join you in battle.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Your crewmates are coming to retrieve you. You were wise to comply.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. We're almost in range.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Stand by. I've isolated the frequency.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Get Korok.

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Our emitters are fully charged.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: You should be receiving the interlink frequency.
KOROK: We have it.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Wait for my signal.

[Unimatrix Zero - settlement]

AXUM: We have to end our regeneration cycles. We can't be here when it
happens.
LAURA: Will there be anything left?
AXUM: I know we're being asked to make a sacrifice but it's the only way.

[Bridge]

PARIS: We're in range.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields. All weapons online. Voyager to
Korok. It's time.
(the two ships power their deflectors)

[Unimatrix Zero]

(the environment begins to break down)
AXUM: You must go.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: Bridge, it's working. Unimatrix Zero is shutting down.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Voyager to Korok. Now.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: What are they doing?
JANEWAY: You wanted to destroy Unimatrix Zero. We're just lending you a
hand.
QUEEN: Get me the virus.
JANEWAY: You're too late. There's no one left to infect.
QUEEN: This is your compromise?
JANEWAY: I don't compromise with Borg.

[Korok's Sphere]

(approaching Janeway's Cube)
KOROK: Match their shield modulations and fire.

[Bridge]

NEELIX: I'm picking up the away team.
KIM: I'm isolating their bio-signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock.
KIM: I still can't penetrate their inner shields.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Korok. Status?

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Patience, Commander. They're trying to remodulate their secondary
shield grid.

[Bridge]

KOROK [OC]: I'm attempting to compensate.

[Unimatrix Zero - settlement]

AXUM: You shouldn't be here.
SEVEN: Neither should you. I've wasted our time together.
AXUM: No, you didn't. It gave us a chance to fall in love again.
SEVEN: We've lost our only way to be together.
AXUM: No. I'll find you.
SEVEN: Axum.
AXUM: I'll find you!

[Korok's Sphere]

KOROK: Shields in sub-grid forty two are destabilizing. Target that
section.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Initiate self-destruct.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.

Chief medical officer's log, Stardate 54014.4. It's been forty eight
hours since the away team returned to Voyager. Thanks to the neural
suppressant I've been able to extract most of their Borg technology. The
Captain and B'Elanna are on the mend but Tuvok will need a little more
time to recover.

[Sickbay]

SEVEN: General Korok is finished with his repairs. He's already been
contacted by another Borg vessel in the region. It's also under the
control of former drones.
JANEWAY: The Doctor removed my spinal clamps but it'll be a while before
I'm playing hoverball again. If I ever imply it's been easy on you these
last few years, remind me about today.
SEVEN: Noted.
JANEWAY: Well, Unimatrix Zero may be gone but it looks like the
resistance is alive and kicking. With any luck, the Collective may never
be the same.
SEVEN: Korok said he would try to maintain contact, keep us informed.
JANEWAY: Have you heard from your friend?
SEVEN: No, but I don't expect to. Axum's vessel is in a remote sector of
the Beta quadrant. If I ever imply that he was nothing more than a
friend, remind me about today.



Star Trek ® is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.



