Title: Dark Frontier
Stardate: 52619.2
Original Airdate: February 17, 1999


[Borg Probe Vessel]

BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid one
one six. Activate. Alter course to intercept. Vessel identified.
Federation Starfleet, Intrepid Class, one hundred forty three life-forms.
Prepare for assimilation. We are the Borg. You will be assimilated.
Resistance is futile.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Break off your pursuit, or we'll open fire.
BORG [OC]: Irrelevant.
JANEWAY [on monitor]: Is it? You've scanned our vessel. You know we can
match your firepower.
BORG [OC]: You will be assimilated. Regenerate primary shield matrix.
Remodulate weapons. Security breach. Starfleet photon torpedo. Disarm
weapon.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: I thought we were trying to disable it.
SEVEN: The torpedo detonated near the power matrix. It caused a chain
reaction.
JANEWAY: Survivors.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Debris status.
KIM: There's a few components intact but they're badly damaged.
JANEWAY: Begin a salvage operation.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There might be something we can use weapons, a transwarp coil. I
don't know about the rest of you, but I feel lucky today.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: Now, this is how I prefer the Borg. in pieces.
CHAKOTAY: Eight kilotons of debris, most of it hull fragments. So far
we've recovered two power nodes and dozen plasma conduits, all in working
order.
JANEWAY: Their propulsion system, anything left?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna found a transwarp coil.
JANEWAY: It's lighter than I expected. It must be some kind of polytrinic
alloy. Let's hope our little skirmish got back to the hive mind. Maybe
they'll think twice before they attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: It was only a probe. Next time, we might not be so lucky.
KIM: Captain, don't touch that.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know, but a few minutes ago it was crawling around the
floor. I think it's some kind of auto-regeneration unit.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning. By my count, we've added at least two
years to our journey by avoiding the Borg. I'm tired of turning tail
every time we detect a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Better safe than assimilated,
JANEWAY: Mmm.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should go to red alert and get it over with.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You're about to drop one of your bombshells.
JANEWAY: Now what makes you say that?
CHAKOTAY: The way you fiddle with your combadge. You do it every time.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have to keep an eye on that.
EMH: Eureka! I was hoping to find one of these. It's a servo-armature
from a medical repair drone. Laser scalpel, bio-molecular scanner,
micro-suture, all rolled into one instrument.
PARIS: No Federation Sickbay should be without one.
EMH: This could revolutionise the way that I perform surgery.
JANEWAY: Excellent. Why don't you deactivate it for now.
TORRES: Remodulate the coil frequency.
SEVEN: No effect.
TORRES: Try again.
SEVEN: The field regulator is fused.
CHAKOTAY: What seems to be the problem?
TORRES: We can't activate the transwarp coil.
SEVEN: When a Borg vessel is critically damaged all of its vital
technology self-destructs. The coil is beyond repair.
CHAKOTAY: At least the Doctor found a new toy.
SEVEN: Captain. Datanodes. One of them is a drone manifest, the other
contains tactical information.
CHAKOTAY: Specifically?
SEVEN: Long-range sensor telemetry, assimilation logistics and vessel
movements for a radius of thirty light years.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look.
SEVEN: I'll need to convert the information to Starfleet parameters.
JANEWAY: Time?
SEVEN: Two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Mess hall]

PARIS: After nine hours staring at that debris I was beginning to feel
like a drone.
KIM: I could use a shower.
PARIS: Do Borg shower? Neelix, we need a couple of beers.
NEELIX: Name your malt.
PARIS: Ktarian. Replicate a pint for yourself, because we're going to
toast the man of the hour.
NEELIX: Oh?
PARIS: It was Harry's idea to beam over a photon torpedo while they were
remodulating their shields.
KIM: I didn't think they'd fall for it.
PARIS: Ah, but they did. Hook, line and sinker. I would have loved to
have seen the look on their faces. Boom!
KIM: To be honest, I wish the boom had been a bit smaller. We were only
trying to disable them.
PARIS: They were drones, Harry. Mindless automatons. We did them a favour.
KIM: Seven.
PARIS: Look, I didn't mean anything by that.
SEVEN: Your apology is irrelevant. It is impossible to offend a mindless
drone.
PARIS: Cheers.

[Astrometrics lab]

SEVEN: I was able to recover sixty two percent of the data. This is an
isogrid of Borg tactical movements across twenty five sectors.
JANEWAY: Are there any dangers along our present course?
SEVEN: There are three Cubes approximately nine light years away,
travelling on a trajectory parallel to our own. They do not pose a threat.
JANEWAY: What about that vessel?
SEVEN: It's a scout ship, eight light years away travelling at warp two.
The ship is heavily damaged.
TUVOK: Was it attacked?
SEVEN: No, an ion storm. The Sphere is presently regenerating. That
explains why it is travelling at low warp.
JANEWAY: Limping home.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking.
JANEWAY: I want a detailed schematic of this vessel, down to the power
distribution nodes. I think we've just struck gold.

[Briefing room]

JANEWAY: So what we have here in two simple words is, Fort Knox.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, translate?
PARIS: Fort Knox. The largest repository of gold bullion in Earth's
history. Over fifty metric tons worth over nine trillion U.S. dollars.
JANEWAY: Keep going.
PARIS: Well, er, when the New World Economy took shape in the late twenty
second century and money went the way of the dinosaur, Fort Knox was
turned into a museum.
JANEWAY: And no one ever managed to break into that facility, right?
PARIS: Well, a couple of Ferengi tried about ten years ago, but other
than that, it's considered impenetrable.
CHAKOTAY: Are you planning a heist?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. Except we're not chasing gold. We're going
to steal a transwarp coil. Think it might come in handy?
TORRES: If I could equip our engines with even one coil we could shave
about twenty years off this trip.
TUVOK: Do you believe the Borg sphere is damaged enough for us to
penetrate its defences?
JANEWAY: Long enough to take what we want and get out in one piece, but
we'd have to plan this operation down to the millisecond. There would be
no margin for error. As I see it, we plan an intercept course that won't
attract their attention, then create a diversion to keep them occupied so
we can send in an away team to obtain the technology.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to see the data on that Sphere. We might be able to
re-create parts of it on the holodeck, run a few tactical simulations.
JANEWAY: It's all yours.
TORRES: We need to mask our warp signature. I've got a few Maquis tricks
up my sleeve. They're not exactly Starfleet-approved, but.
JANEWAY: This is no time for protocol. Get started. The sphere is three
days away by maximum warp. Set a course. Chakotay, I want an outline for
our heist by tomorrow morning. We've proven ourselves against the Borg
once before, twice before, but we're always the ones under attack. I
think it's time to do a little assimilating of our own, huh? Dismissed.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd be a little more vocal. Any thoughts?
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious. There are many variables, but it can
succeed.
JANEWAY: I'd like to narrow that list of variables. I was hoping your
parents might provide us with a few insights. I've been looking over the
records we found on the U.S.S. Raven. Your parents kept extensive field
notes, detailed journals. There are over nine thousand log entries alone.
SEVEN: The information is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: On the contrary, Seven. They spent their careers studying the
Borg. They tracked a cube at close range for what, two years?
SEVEN: Three.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say that made them experts. I want you to study their
research. Look for any data that might give us a tactical edge.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated. Obviously their tactics were flawed.
JANEWAY: Look, these records have been collecting dust in our database
for over a year. You say they're irrelevant and I say you've been
avoiding them. You're the best person for the job, but I'll assign it to
Chakotay if.
SEVEN: No. The information belongs to me. I will read it.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: You're late.
NEELIX: Sorry. It took longer than I expected to download these records.
This is only the first batch. Your parents sure had a lot to say. I
organised the information by category. Field notes, personal logs,
bio-kinetic analyses. I don't mean to pry, but is it true your parents
were studying the Borg?
SEVEN: Yes. The Hansens were exobiologists.
NEELIX: Fascinating. They must have been very courageous.
SEVEN: They were misguided.
NEELIX: A faded holo-image. That's all I've got left of my family. A
picture of my sister. Except, of course, what I keep in here. What I
wouldn't give for a treasure trove like this. Well, I'd better get
started on the rest of those files.
MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32611.4: It's about
time. The Federation Council on Exobiology has given us final approval.
Starfleet's still concerned about security issues but they've agreed not
to stand in our way. We've said our goodbyes, and we're ready to start
chasing our theories about the Borg.

[Annika's room]

ANNIKA: Zoom, zoom.
MAGNUS: Ah, ah, ah, put down the cube, Muffin. It's not a toy.
ANNIKA: I won't crash it.
MAGNUS: Come here, Daddy wants to talk to you. Now, remember when I said
that you, me and Mommy were going on a very long voyage?
ANNIKA: Ah-ha.
MAGNUS: Well, we're leaving tomorrow and we won't see Earth for quite a
while.
ANNIKA: Are we going to see the Borg?
MAGNUS: If we're lucky.
ANNIKA: Do the Borg have kids, too?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows. We'll be the first humans to study them up close.
ANNIKA: What do they look like?
MAGNUS: We're not sure exactly, but we think they might look a lot like
us, but with technology inside their bodies.
ANNIKA: Cy-ber-netic? Are they friendly?
MAGNUS: Well, they're different. They don't talk like us, or even think
like us, but we're hoping to make friends one day.
ANNIKA: I hope so, too, Daddy.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32623.5: we've been
tracking stray readings for nearly eight months now, but there's still no
sign of a vessel. I'm beginning to wonder if the Borg are nothing more
than rumour and sensor echoes.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus.
MAGNUS: We have to keep moving. If we take the replicators offline and
run environmental systems at half power, we can go another twenty light
years before refuelling.
ERIN: We should refuel now. The nearest dilithium is in an asteroid field
just ten days from here.
MAGNUS: That's ten days we can't afford to lose. We're getting close. If
we stop now, we might as well just turn around and go home.
ERIN: Home, to what? We have deviated from our flight plan, crossed the
neutral zone, disobeyed a direct order to return. Our colleagues
obviously think we are insane. We have burned our bridges, Magnus.
ANNIKA: I can't sleep.
MAGNUS: Come here. Why can't Annika sleep? The greatest scientific
mystery of our time.
ERIN: I have a hypothesis. Her noisy parents are keeping her up.
MAGNUS: Hmm. Sounds plausible.
ERIN: Triquantum waves, six hundred thousand kilometres off the port bow.
MAGNUS: Subspace disruptions, field magnitude two point nine teracochrans
and rising. Annika, bed.
ERIN: Power utilization curve is highly symmetric.
MAGNUS: Artificial source probability point nine eight. Now. it's got to
be a transwarp conduit. Nothing else could generate these readings. I'm
taking us closer.
ERIN: It's a Borg Cube, two thousand kilometres starboard.
MAGNUS: I've got a visual.
ERIN: It's massive. Twenty eight cubic kilometres, hundred and twenty
nine thousand life-forms on board. We're being scanned. They haven't
altered course.
MAGNUS: This could prove our theory. They ignore any lifeform until they
consider it a threat, or a target. They're moving off.
ERIN: Let's match their course and speed. Keep a distance of five million
kilometres.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine to the Bridge. 
SEVEN: On my way.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: Have we been detected?
KIM: No, ma'am.
TUVOK: I have a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they took a real beating.
JANEWAY: They could still pose a threat. Let's not get too close. Match
their course and speed. Keep a distance of ten million kilometres.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the vessel. I want to know their current status.
SEVEN: Their weapons array is regenerating, but shields and transwarp
drive are still offline.
JANEWAY: How long until they have transwarp.
SEVEN: Approximately seventy two hours.
JANEWAY: We may not get this opportunity again and I don't intend to miss
it. Whatever it takes, double shifts, round-the-clock simulations, I want
to be ready.

CHAKOTAY: Bridge to away teams. You're six seconds behind schedule.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: We are at the shield matrix. Stand by.
KIM: The primary shield generator. I've got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges, here, there and there.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You've got fifty five seconds.

[Borg Sphere]

TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway. Charges set. We're returning to the transport
co-ordinates.

SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.

TUVOK: Activate the charges.

JANEWAY: Bridge, their shields are down. Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: I've got a lock.

[Borg Sphere]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: You're out of time.

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: They've adapted. This way. Seven!
TUVOK: Bridge, stand by for transport.
KIM: Hurry!
TUVOK: Energise.

[Bridge]

PARIS: I've got them. Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: Beam them out of here.
PARIS: I can't get a lock. They've adapted to our transport frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze programme, both holodecks. What happened?
PARIS: They tapped into our transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to holodeck two. We got the transwarp coil

[Transporter room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: but we also picked up some uninvited guests.
JANEWAY: What was our time?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Two minutes twelve seconds.
JANEWAY: Twelve seconds too late. Once we disable their sensor grid we
only have two minutes until it regenerates.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Did you run into any problems?

[Transporter room]

TUVOK: None.
SEVEN: We were efficient.
KIM: What if we beam directly into the transwarp chamber?
JANEWAY: There's too much shielding.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could modify our transporters.
JANEWAY: I've already explored that option. It won't work.
KIM: Twelve seconds. Might as well be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Hansens. They were able to remain inside a Borg cube for
several hours without being detected.
KIM: How?
SEVEN: I'm not certain.
JANEWAY: Well keep investigating.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We've run enough simulations for one day. Let's work on refining
our tactics, anything we can do to shave a few more seconds off our
little heist. Computer, end programme.

[Corridor]

JANEWAY: I don't know about you but I知 glad to be back on Voyager. Borg
vessels make my skin crawl.
SEVEN: It was a holodeck re-creation.
JANEWAY: Close enough. We've just spent the last three hours dodging
drones. It didn't bother you?
SEVEN: Your point.
JANEWAY: You seemed a little nervous in there.
SEVEN: The last time I was on a Borg vessel I was a drone. The
re-creation was unsettling.
JANEWAY: You were reluctant to look at your parents' research and now I
sense you're a little reluctant to go on this mission. Maybe I知 pushing
you too fast.
SEVEN: I'll adapt.
JANEWAY: It's easier said than done. It's been over two years since you
came face-to-face with the Collective. Are you sure you're up to it? I
need everybody working at peak efficiency.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to function.
JANEWAY: No, I知 simply voicing my concerns.
SEVEN: They are unjustified.
JANEWAY: I hope so, because the next time we won't be on the holodeck.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Cargo Bay two]

SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I had a bad dream. Can I stay with you for a while?
SEVEN: Where is your mother?
NAOMI: She's working in Engineering, and Neelix is on a duty shift.
Please? I won't bother you.
SEVEN: Very well.
NAOMI: It looked just like this.
SEVEN: What did?
NAOMI: In my dream. There was Borg stuff everywhere.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: I went on the mission, the one my Mom told me about, the Borg
Sphere, but it didn't work. Everybody got assimilated.
SEVEN: Nightmares are caused by irrational fear. They're not real, they
can't damage you. Try to ignore it.
NAOMI: Mom said we're going to steal something.
SEVEN: A transwarp coil.
NAOMI: Will you be on the sphere?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Are you scared?
SEVEN: We will succeed.
NAOMI: But what if you don't? What if they make you a drone again?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, you agreed not to bother me.
NAOMI: What's it like to be a drone? Does it hurt?
SEVEN: You will terminate this line of questioning.
NAOMI: Do the Borg have kids? What do they look like? Are they friendly?
SEVEN: Return to your quarters immediately!
NAOMI: Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Security. Intruder alert!
QUEEN [OC]: They can't hear you.
SEVEN: Who are you?
QUEEN [OC]: I am the Borg. Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix
zero one, you've become weak.
SEVEN: This is a dream. I知 regenerating.
QUEEN [OC]: It's not a dream. We've accessed your neural transceiver. Our
thoughts are one. We know about Voyager's plan to invade the Sphere. It
will fail.
SEVEN: If that's true, then why haven't you assimilated them?
QUEEN [OC]: We've come to make you an offer. Rejoin the Collective and
we'll spare Voyager.
SEVEN: Why me?
QUEEN [OC]: Because you are unique.

MAGNUS [OC]: field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32629.4: after three
months of tracking our Borg cube, the vessel entered a transwarp conduit.
We followed in its wake. Our sensors tell us we've travelled all the way
to the Delta quadrant, the Borg's native territory.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Magnus, you're breaking up.
MAGNUS [on monitor]: Just some bio-electric interference. Stand by. Is
that better?
ERIN: Much. How's Junior?

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: He took a real beating when that plasma conduit blew out. He's
regenerating. Wait a minute, something's happening. Bill and Needle
Fingers just arrived. This is odd. They're making repairs to Junior.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: I thought drones from different subunits didn't interact.
MAGNUS [OC]: Looks like we were wrong.

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: They deactivated him.
ERIN [OC]: Why?
MAGNUS: Maybe he was too badly damaged. They're dismantling him. They
must be salvaging the components.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: Your bio-dampener is losing power. It's time to come home.
MAGNUS [OC]: I've got another minute or so. Stand by.

[Borg Cube]

MAGNUS: We may not get another chance to observe this behaviour.

[Sickbay - Doctor's office]

SEVEN: It prevented the Borg from detecting them. They referred to it as
a bio-dampener. The device creates a field around the body, which
simulates the physiometric conditions within a Borg vessel.
TUVOK: Camouflage.
SEVEN: Precisely.
TUVOK: We need four of these devices. How soon can you replicate them?
EMH: I'll have to tailor each unit to it's users physiology. A few hours
at least.
TUVOK: Begin immediately. I'll inform the Captain.
EMH: Ingenious design.
SEVEN: The Hansens were resourceful.
EMH: Sounds like you're warming up to your folks.
SEVEN: It was merely an observation.
EMH: This is an important stage of your social development, Seven. Try
not to think of it as simply a research project, but as an exploration of
how you were raised.
SEVEN: My parents underestimated the Collective. They were destroyed.
Because of their arrogance, I was raised by Borg.

Captain's Log, supplemental. Operation Fort Knox is ready to proceed. All
departments are standing by and I've given the order to begin at oh six
hundred hours.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Coffee? You look like you could use some.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: It's a human vice you might want to try one day. Keeps you sharp.
SEVEN: One day.
JANEWAY: I've been fine-tuning our game plan for tomorrow morning and
I've decided to reassign you to the bridge.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm concerned about Voyager's safety, and if the sphere decides
to attack I'll need your expertise at Tactical.
SEVEN: I should be on the away team.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna will do just fine in your place.
SEVEN: You may encounter unexpected obstacles. Force fields, encryption
codes. I'm the only member of this crew who can anticipate them.
JANEWAY: You underestimate the rest of us?
SEVEN: And you underestimate the Borg.
JANEWAY: This is more than just a question of tactics. I'm concerned
about your well-being and your ability to perform on this mission.
SEVEN: Your concern is unwarranted.
JANEWAY: Is it? I'm not the only one who's worried about you. Chakotay,
Neelix, the Doctor, we've all noticed changes in your behaviour. You are
preoccupied, agitated, and you're making mistakes. Don't get me wrong. I
appreciate your efforts, and we couldn't have come this far without your
help, but it's obviously taken its toll. If I'd realised how those
journals were going to affect you I never would have pushed you to read
them, and I'm not about to ask you to face the Collective in your present
frame of mind.
SEVEN: The past several days have been difficult, but I must join the
away team and I assure you I will not make another mistake.
JANEWAY: I've made my decision, Seven.
SEVEN: If I don't go, this mission will fail.
JANEWAY: You sound awfully certain about that.
SEVEN: I know the Borg.
JANEWAY: And I know you. There's more to what you're saying. What's wrong?
SEVEN: Over the past two years, I have become familiar with the
individuals on this vessel. Voyager is my collective now. Your survival
is important to me. I am willing to risk my own well-being if it
increases our chances of success. Assign me to the away team, please.
Thank you.
JANEWAY: Seven. You've made remarkable progress as an individual and as a
member of this crew. For what it's worth, Voyager wouldn't be the same
without you.

BORG [OC]: A vessel has been detected, unimatrix four two four grid zero
three. Activate.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, class two
shuttlecraft. Three life-forms.

[Bridge]

TORRES: The sphere's maintaining course.
CHAKOTAY: Move the shuttle in closer.
PARIS: The Borg are still ignoring it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Transporter Room two.

[Transporter Room]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: They're not taking the bait.
JANEWAY: Shuttle status?
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All systems go. False bio-readings are holding steady.
KIM: How about a phaser shot across their bow. Might grab their attention.
SEVEN: No. The shuttle would be perceived as a threat and they'd destroy
it.
JANEWAY: Commander, increase the energy output of the shuttle's warp
profile. That should present a more inviting target.

[Borg Sphere]

BORG [OC]: Warp signature detected. Prepare for assimilation. Relevant
technology. Engage tractor pulse.

[Bridge]

PARIS: They've got it. They're pulling it in toward a docking port along
the central radius. Five hundred metres, two hundred, they're dropping
shields.
CHAKOTAY: Energise.
TORRES: They're in.
EMH: Bio-dampeners are stable. They're as good as invisible.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere?
TORRES: The shields are back up. They're assimilating the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a sensor lock on the away team. Maintain course.

[Borg Sphere]

QUEEN [OC]: Never forget who you are.
JANEWAY: Seven, are you all right?
SEVEN: Proceed.

KIM: Primary shield generator. Got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges here, there and there. Tuvok to Janeway, charges
set. Returning to transport co-ordinates.

SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.

TUVOK: Activate the charges.

[Bridge]

PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the coil and energise.

[Borg Sphere]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Target obtained.
QUEEN [OC]: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven, keep moving!
SEVEN: No. I wish to stay. I intend to rejoin the Collective.
JANEWAY: I can't let you do that.
SEVEN: You have no choice.
JANEWAY: Keep moving. That's an order!
SEVEN: Go!
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to away team.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: The sphere has detected Voyager. They've altered course to
intercept and they're charging weapons. We've got to get you out of there
now.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometres and closing.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to weapons.

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: I'm not leaving without you!
SEVEN: Then you will be assimilated.

TUVOK: They can see us.
KIM: How?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Bridge, we're in position. Three to beam up.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Three?
JANEWAY: Energise.

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: Where's Seven?
JANEWAY: She had a change of heart. Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere's changing course. They're retreating.
TORRES: They're bringing the remaining transwarp coils online.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course. Target their propulsion system.
PARIS: They're gone, Captain.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Welcome home. You've changed. Your exo-plating, your ocular
implant. They've taken you apart and they've re-created you in their own
image. Hair, garments, but at the core you are still mine.
SEVEN: The Borg have changed as well. I expected re-assimilation, not
conversation.
QUEEN: I see they've also given you a sense of humour.
SEVEN: My humour is my own.
QUEEN: Spoken like a true individual. The last two years must have been a
remarkable experience. You are unique.
SEVEN: My experience will add to your perfection.
QUEEN: Yes.
SEVEN: That is why you removed me from Voyager.
QUEEN: That is why we put you there in the first place. You believe that
Voyager liberated you from the Collective. Did you really think we would
surrender you so easily?
SEVEN: Explain.
QUEEN: You must be tired. It's time to regenerate. We've adapted an
alcove just for you. Go, it will help order your thoughts. When your
cycle is complete we will continue our conversation. Comply.

[Cargo Bay two]

CHAKOTAY: No sign of Borg activity. We made a clean getaway.
JANEWAY: The Sphere?
CHAKOTAY: It hasn't shown up on long range sensors or subspace telemetry.
It could be anywhere in the quadrant by now.
JANEWAY: Launch a class five probe. Scan for residual transwarp
signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
JANEWAY: Why choose this moment to rejoin the Collective?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe she'd been planning it all along.
JANEWAY: She's had any number of opportunities to leave before now.
CHAKOTAY: But never direct access to a Borg vessel. I will betray you.
That's what she said two years ago when you disconnected her from the
hive.
JANEWAY: Two days ago, she told me Voyager had become her Collective.
NEELIX: Captain, we've cleared out most of the debris, but before we
vaporise it I'd like to melt down the larger fragments and extract the
polytrinic compounds.
JANEWAY: Makes sense.
NEELIX: That leaves just one item, Seven of Nine's alcove. It requires a
lot of power, over thirty megawatts. Should I deactivate it?
JANEWAY: No, leave it alone.

[Ready room]

JANEWAY: Computer, isolate the sensor readings for time index one one
four point six and identify source.
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Isolate the sensor readings for time index one six six point
two. Source?
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a transpectral analysis on all subspace
fluctuations. Yes?
TUVOK: A member of the crew has requested an appointment with the
Captain. I informed her that you were occupied, but she was insistent.
JANEWAY: Whatever it is, I'm sure Commander Chakotay can handle. Request
granted. Send her in.
NAOMI: Permission to submit a proposal for your review.
JANEWAY: Proposal?
NAOMI: It's a rescue operation for Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Oh. You created this plan all by yourself?
NAOMI: Yes, ma'am. You see, if we change our long range sensors to
Seven's cortical implant frequency maybe we can find her.
JANEWAY: The Delta quadrant is a very big place, and Seven could be
thousands of light years from here.
NAOMI: What if we boosted our sensor range with power from the main
deflector?
JANEWAY: You've been spending too much time in Engineering. I'm afraid
it's not quite that simple. But thank you Crewman, your initiative is
duly noted.
NAOMI: Captain? You're not going to give up are you?
JANEWAY: There are three things to remember about being a Starship
Captain. Keep your shirt tucked in, go down with the ship, and never
abandon a member of your crew.
COMPUTER: Transpectral analysis complete.
JANEWAY: Take a look at this, Naomi. What do you see?
NAOMI: Sensor logs.
JANEWAY: These aren't random energy fluctuations. They're Borg comm.
signals, and they were all directed at Cargo Bay two.
NAOMI: You mean the Borg were talking to Seven of Nine?
JANEWAY: It sure looks that way. Come on.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Good morning.
SEVEN: My visual cortex, it's been altered.
QUEEN: We've enhanced it with Borg technology. You've seen through human
eyes long enough. It's a neural processing adjunct designed to increase
your synaptic efficiency.
SEVEN: Remove it.
QUEEN: You prefer to remain small.
SEVEN: I prefer to remain unique.
QUEEN: Don't be afraid. We won't turn you into a drone. You're much too
valuable to us with your individuality intact. But you've left humanity
behind. Try to abandon their petty emotions as well. Fear, anger, vanity.
They've corrupted you, but the damage can be repaired.
SEVEN: You've expended significant resources to capture me. Why?
QUEEN: Isn't it obvious? You're going to help us assimilate humanity. We
failed in our first attempt to assimilate Earth, and we won't succeed the
next time unless we understand the nature of their resistance. We want
you to be our eyes. Let us see humanity.
SEVEN: While I was regenerating, you assimilated my memories.
QUEEN: Our thoughts are one.
SEVEN: Then you already possess all of my knowledge. What more do you
want?
QUEEN: You are the only Borg that has ever returned to a state of
individuality. We want to keep you exactly the way you are. Otherwise you
would lose your human perspective. We don't want another drone. We want
you.
SEVEN: I will resist.
QUEEN: I know.
SEVEN: What's happening?
QUEEN: Our vessel is disengaging from the unicomplex. We're setting a
course for grid five three two.
SEVEN: State our purpose.
QUEEN: Assimilation. Our presence is not required but I thought the
experience would be a rewarding one for you. Species one zero zero two
six.
SEVEN: How many life-forms?
QUEEN: Three hundred ninety two thousand. You're experiencing compassion.
A human impulse. You've forgotten what it means to be Borg. Those lives
will be added to our own.

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, supplemental. It's been a busy
week. The cube linked with another Borg vessel and received over fifty
thousand new drones. We now begin the dangerous task of identifying the
newcomers.

[USS Raven - lab]

ERIN: Species six nine six one, Ktarian. Tritanium infrastructure. He's a
tactical drone.
MAGNUS: Take a look at his proximity transceiver. Let's check his
previous designation.
ERIN: Three of five, Tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix one.
MAGNUS: I want to keep an eye on this one. Let's tag him. Bring me the
subdermal probe, will you?
ANNIKA: Is he special?
MAGNUS: Very special. We think he used to work near the Borg Queen. If he
ever goes back there we'll be able to track him now.
ANNIKA: Does the Queen have a throne?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows.
ERIN: We think she's more like the Queen of an insect colony. She helps
co-ordinate all the other drones.
MAGNUS: His regeneration cycle's almost complete. We'd better get him
back.
ANNIKA: Bye.
ERIN: He's in his alcove. Nobody missed him. Enough drones for one day.
Anybody hungry?
ANNIKA: Me!
MAGNUS: You two go ahead. I want to read through his cranial transceiver
logs, see if he was ever in direct contact with the Queen.
ERIN: Don't be long.

[Janeway's quarters]

CHAKOTAY: It turns out his hunch was right. The drone had been receiving
direct commands from this Borg Queen. I analysed the comm. signals. Look
at the transpectral frequencies.
JANEWAY: They match the ones that were sent to Seven. What did the
Hansens learn about this Queen?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid they never got a chance to find out.
JANEWAY: One thing is certain. She contacted Seven of Nine, and the next
day Seven rejoined the Borg. Obviously, she exerts some influence.
CHAKOTAY: You think Seven was instructed to leave Voyager?
JANEWAY: Instructed, coerced. She insisted she join the away team. She
was adamant that if she didn't board that Sphere our mission would fail.
Sounds to me like she was being threatened. My instincts told me she was
holding something back, but I, I didn't pursue it. I let her go.
CHAKOTAY: If you hadn't, we might all be drones by now.
JANEWAY: What's running through that Collective mind of yours? You've got
thousands of species to choose from, billions of individuals. Why Seven
of Nine? You should've assimilated us while you had the chance.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I want you to keep analysing the Hansens' database. Compile a
list of every technology they created to track the Borg. Assemble a team
of engineers to assist you.
CHAKOTAY: If you're planning a rescue mission that research will only
take us so far.
JANEWAY: Oh?
CHAKOTAY: I've studied their log entries long enough to realise that as
brilliant as the Hansens were, they made a fatal mistake. They became
overconfident.
JANEWAY: We won't make the same mistake.

[Bridge]

JANEWAY: This will be a long range tactical rescue. It could take days,
even weeks, before we find our missing crewman. Lieutenant Torres is
equipping the Delta Flyer with the transwarp coil. It'll allow us to
cover more territory. An away team will take it into transwarp space
where Tuvok believes we can track the sphere that abducted Seven of Nine.
Thanks to the Hansens, we'll be well prepared for an encounter with the
Borg. Their multi-adaptive shielding will make the Flyer virtually
invisible to Borg sensors, and narrow beam transporters will allow us to
penetrate the Sphere. Mister Paris, you'll man the helm. Commander Tuvok,
tactical. Doctor, there's no telling what condition Seven will be in when
we find her. You'll come along.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll be leading the away team. The rest of you will remain on
Voyager and maintain position at the threshold of our transwarp conduit.
We may need tactical support when we return. You'll be taking your orders
from Commander Chakotay. We'll be searching for one individual among
thousands of drones, but she's one of us and I'm not about to let her go.
Let's get started.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: All systems go. We're ready for the jump.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp.
TUVOK: Power output fluctuating.
JANEWAY: Compensating.
PARIS: We're at critical velocity.
JANEWAY: Engage, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. We've crossed the threshold.
JANEWAY: Steady as she goes. Doctor, are you all right?
EMH: Just a little motion sickness. I'll need to adjust my matrix to
accommodate for extreme velocity.
TUVOK: I'm detecting residual transwarp signatures. They match the Borg
Sphere.
JANEWAY: Adjust our course and follow it, Mister Paris.
EMH: I believe the Captain's order was steady as she goes.
JANEWAY: Full speed ahead.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: We've arrived. Are you ready?
SEVEN: I have familiarised myself with the species.
QUEEN: Tactical weakness.
SEVEN: Their vessels lack manoeuverability.
QUEEN: Tactical strength.
SEVEN: They've developed a modulating phaser pulse that can penetrate our
shields.
QUEEN: How do you propose we adapt.
SEVEN: You are the Borg. You tell me.
QUEEN: Thirty nine of their vessels are converging on our position.
They're firing weapons. Our shields are failing. We will be destroyed.
How do you propose we adapt.
SEVEN: Triaxillate our shield geometry to absorb their phaser pulses.
QUEEN: I was thinking the same thing. Adaptation complete. They're no
longer a threat. Go to the primary assimilation chamber. You'll monitor
the bio-extraction process. You look reluctant. Maybe I've been pushing
you too quickly. You can assist with the repairs to our shield matrix
instead. Seven of Nine, be efficient.

[Assimilation chamber]

SEVEN: Assist me. I am not Borg, I will help you escape. Assist me! I'm
detecting one of your vessels. It's heavily damaged, the crew is dead.
The Borg are ignoring it. Its propulsion system is still functioning. I
will transport you aboard. Remain there until the Borg leave orbit. Then
set a course on a heading of one two one mark nine. Do you understand?

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Congratulations.
SEVEN: Regarding.
QUEEN: Assimilation is complete.
SEVEN: Three hundred thousand individuals have been transformed into
drones. Should they be congratulated as well?
QUEEN: They should be. They've left behind their trivial, selfish lives
and they've been reborn with a greater purpose. We've delivered them from
chaos into order.
SEVEN: Comforting words. Use them next time instead of resistance is
futile. You may elicit a few volunteers.
QUEEN: You cling to sarcasm because you are afraid to see the truth.
Species one zero zero two six is already adding to our perfection. You
can feel their distinctiveness coursing through us, enhancing us. Stop
resisting. Take pleasure in this.
SEVEN: I will not take pleasure in the destruction of a race!
QUEEN: Human sentiment. Compassion, guilt, empathy. They're irrelevant!
SEVEN: Not to me.
QUEEN: Me? There is no me. There is only us. One mind.
SEVEN: My thoughts are my own.
QUEEN: We've overlooked something. A ship, four life forms. They're
trying to escape. How do you suggest we proceed. Destroy the vessel or
assimilate it?
SEVEN: Neither. There are only four life forms and the vessel is heavily
damaged. It would be an inefficient use of our resources. We should
ignore it.
QUEEN: In this case our thoughts are not one. If those individuals are
allowed to survive, species one zero zero two six will survive and
continue to resist us. But that's what you were hoping for, wasn't it.
You tried to mask their life signs but I detected them.
SEVEN: Release the vessel.
QUEEN: I'm sorry this lesson has to be so painful for you, but you are a
difficult pupil. Abandon your human frailties. They are the cause of your
pain.
SEVEN: Let them go, please. I thought compassion was irrelevant?

MAGNUS [OC]: Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32634.9. The Raven was
hit by a subspace particle storm. We took heavy damage and our
multi-adaptive shielding went offline for thirteen point two seconds.
Unfortunately, it was long enough for the Borg to perceive us as a threat.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

ERIN: I've found something. A nebula.
MAGNUS: Class?
ERIN: Mutara. Distance, three light years. I'm setting a course.
MAGNUS: The particle density's too high. Our hull would breach.
ERIN: We can reinforce structural integrity.
MAGNUS: We'll find somewhere else to hide.
ERIN: There's no time.

[Annika's room]

MAGNUS [OC]: It's been three hours and the cube hasn't found us yet. As
long as we can keep masking our warp trail.
ERIN [OC]: The entire Collective knows about us by now. They'll send more
ships.
MAGNUS [OC]: The nebula's too dangerous.

[USS Raven - Bridge]

MAGNUS: We've had close calls before. This is no different. Remember when
the transporters failed?
ERIN: And you had to spend the night in a maturation chamber, with fifty
two neonatal drones. A transwarp conduit, two point three light years
starboard. It's a cube heading right for us.
MAGNUS: Time to intercept?
ERIN: One hour, maybe less.
ANNIKA [OC]: Papa?
MAGNUS: Be right there, Annika. Start looking for an M-class planet.
We'll abandon ship if we have to.

[Annika's room]

MAGNUS: Hey.
ANNIKA: Are we going to be assimulated?
MAGNUS: Not if I can help it. Go back to sleep, your mother and I have
work to do.
ANNIKA: Are the Borg mad at us?
MAGNUS: No.
ANNIKA: Then why are they chasing our ship?
MAGNUS: They're curious about us like we are about them, but don't worry,
we won't let them get too close.
ANNIKA: Can't we go home?
MAGNUS: Soon.
ANNIKA: Papa, will it hurt to be a drone?
MAGNUS: Sleep.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: Hmm.
EMH: I'd like to suggest a few modifications to the comm. array.
JANEWAY: Yes?
EMH: I've studied Seven's cranial schematics and I've isolated the
frequency of her interplexing beacon. When we catch up with the Sphere we
might be able to send her a brief message.
JANEWAY: What if she's already been linked to the hive mind?
EMH: Every drone has its own translink signature. Only Seven will be able
to hear our message.
JANEWAY: I'll give you a hand.
EMH: The Hansen Diaries. Not exactly light reading.
JANEWAY: I've been poring over their last log entries for any details we
might have missed. I want to make sure history doesn't repeat itself.
EMH: They should have quit while they were ahead. Ten million terraquads
of data, three years in the wild.
JANEWAY: They could have studied the Borg for another three decades and
still have barely scratched the surface. I agree their methods were
unorthodox, but that's been true of most great explorers.
EMH: Most explorers don't take their four year old daughter along for the
ride.
JANEWAY: We'll get her back Doctor, with her parents' help.
PARIS: Captain, I've got a fix on the sphere's location. It's in a region
about two hundred light years from here.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Bring the multi-adaptive shielding online. Set a
course for those co-ordinates and prepare to disengage transwarp drive.

JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I'm detecting thousands of integrated substructures, trillions of
lifeforms, all Borg.
PARIS: There's a cube coming up fast off our port bow.
JANEWAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.
JANEWAY: Any sign of our Sphere?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Its ion signature leads directly to that whatever it
is.
JANEWAY: Take us in, Mister Paris, minimum thrusters. Begin scanning for
Seven, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: I have a task for you. We're planning to deploy a new mode of
assimilation designed for highly resistant species. I want you to
programme the nanoprobes.
SEVEN: Your technology has changed since I left the Collective. My
knowledge is insufficient.
QUEEN: Your knowledge for the target species is invaluable. Species five
six one eight. Human. Warp capable. Origin, grid three two five.
Physiology inefficient, below average cranial capacity, minimal redundant
systems, limited regenerative abilities. Our previous attempts to
assimilate them were all direct assaults. They failed, so we've created a
more surreptitious strategy.
SEVEN: You intend to detonate a biogenic charge in Earth's atmosphere.
QUEEN: It would infect all life forms with nanoprobe viruses.
Assimilation would be gradual. By the time they realised what was
happening, half their population would be drones.
SEVEN: Inefficient. The virus would take years to proliferate.
QUEEN: We've waited this long. Interface with the central alcove. Begin
programming the nanoprobes. Be sure to enhance the viral sequencers.
You've been involved in hundreds of assimilations. This is no different.
SEVEN: To you, perhaps. Part of me is still human. I will not assist in
their destruction.
QUEEN: We all originated from lesser species. I myself came from species
one two five, but that's irrelevant now. We are Borg.
SEVEN: I am an individual.
QUEEN: You're only repeating their words. You sound like a mindless
automaton. Comply, or we will turn you into a drone.
SEVEN: Proceed, if you wish.
QUEEN: You're torn between your desire to be one with us and your loyalty
to them. It's time for you to complete your task. All of your emotions,
grief, guilt, remorse, compassion will be irrelevant once humanity is
assimilated. Forget Voyager. They were never your Collective.
SEVEN: I am Annika Hansen. Human.
QUEEN: I remember Annika. Does she remember us? She wasn't afraid, why
are you?
SEVEN: You attacked us. You murdered my family.
QUEEN: We did no such thing. We gave them perfection.
SEVEN: Papa?
QUEEN: Your family's here. You're here. Be one with us again.
JANEWAY [OC]: Seven of Nine, we're searching for you. Try to hang on.
SEVEN: Captain.
QUEEN: What did you say?
SEVEN: Nothing.
QUEEN: Janeway.

[Delta Flyer]  

JANEWAY: Our transmission's being deflected.
EMH: By whom?
JANEWAY: I'm not certain.
TUVOK: I have isolated Seven's position. She's inside a large
infrastructure approximately six hundred kilometres away.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Mister Paris.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: She's close. Her comm. signal originated within this spatial grid
but we can't detect her vessel. He knows why. Your father designed the
technology Captain Janeway's using. Multi-adaptive shielding. Your
perfect defence against the Borg. But we assimilated that knowledge,
didn't we. We will adapt easily.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The Cube has altered course. It's heading straight for us.
JANEWAY: They've detected us. Remodulate the shield, evasive manoeuvres!
PARIS: It flew right past us.
JANEWAY: We won't fool their sensors much longer. Tuvok?
TUVOK: Seven is inside a large chamber.
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock on her?
TUVOK: Not at this distance.
JANEWAY: Take us to within transporter range.

[Borg Queen's chamber]

QUEEN: We have their ship. A Federation shuttlecraft. Three life-forms,
one hologram.
SEVEN: If you've captured their vessel, you've assimilated them by now. I
would sense their presence in the Collective. Captain Janeway is eluding
you.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: The chamber is too heavily shielded. I can't get a lock on her.
JANEWAY: Can we beam into one of these adjoining corridors?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Time for the bio-dampeners. Tom, hold our position. Target that
chamber with full weapons. Stand by to fire on my command.
PARIS: Ma'am, won't you be down there?
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: This way.
TUVOK: Try to locate the shield matrix.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I can disable the forcefield, but it will take several minutes.
JANEWAY: Do it. Tuvok, give me the subdermal probe.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: It's not too late to save them. As you wish.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: They've isolated our shields again. Three vessels are converging.
I'm remodulating.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

SEVEN: You underestimate them.
QUEEN: It's time for a more aggressive approach.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: I thought they couldn't see us.
PARIS: They can't! They're firing blind!

[Borg Sphere]

JANEWAY: Wake him. It's transmitting. I've got it. Field modulation is
three two four point nine five.
TUVOK: Proceed.
JANEWAY: It's offline.
TUVOK: You'll be detected.
JANEWAY: Then I'd better hurry. You've got to disable the shield matrix
around that chamber.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: It's no use, they've locked on to our shield modulators. They're
adapting the second we change frequencies.
BORG [OC]: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

QUEEN: Resistance is futile. You have failed them.
SEVEN: No.
QUEEN: We believed you would be an asset to us. We were wrong. You are
weak.
JANEWAY: Don't listen to her, Seven. She's irrelevant. Call them off or
I'll destroy you.
QUEEN: Your weapons are useless.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure. My tactical officer is disabling the shields
around this room. Tom, status.
PARIS [OC]: We've targeted the chamber, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let her go, or I'll give the order to fire.
QUEEN: You would be destroyed as well, along with your crewman.
JANEWAY: Better than being one of you. Tom, high-yield torpedoes, full
spread. Fire on my command.

[Delta Flyer]

 PARIS: Captain, they've disengaged

[Borg Queen's Chamber]

PARIS [OC] the tractor.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. Beam us out of here.
PARIS [OC]: A dispersal field just activated around the chamber you're
in. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Seven, shut down that field.
QUEEN: Don't listen to her. She's poisoned your thoughts long enough.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you an order.
QUEEN: One order, one voice. Insignificant.
JANEWAY: Tom, energise.
SEVEN: She's adapting.
PARIS [OC]: The field went up again, Captain. I can't beam you out.
QUEEN: You will assist the Collective as drones. Assimilate them.
SEVEN: Captain, target the power node directly above this alcove.
It will disrupt her command interface. Our thoughts are one.

[Delta Flyer]

EMH: Welcome back.
PARIS: Three vessels, closing fast.
TUVOK: Direct hit to our tactical array. Weapons are down.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp. Tom?
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. A vessel entered the conduit with
us just before it closed.
TUVOK: They're targeting our engines.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
PARIS: Direct hit on the port nacelle. We're venting plasma.
TUVOK: Re-routing emergency power.
PARIS: It's not enough. I'll need thirty teradynes at least or we'll lose
transwarp.
JANEWAY: How long to the rendezvous co-ordinates?
PARIS: Two point four minutes, but we'll drop out of transwarp in less
than one.
JANEWAY: Reroute power from life support. 
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I'd rather suffocate than vaporise. Do it!

[Bridge]

TORRES: I'm picking up transwarp signatures. There's a conduit
approaching, thirty thousand kilometres off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Battle stations.

[Delta Flyer]

PARIS: We're twenty seconds from normal space.
JANEWAY: The Borg vessel?
TUVOK: Still in pursuit, closing rapidly.
PARIS: Fifteen seconds.
SEVEN: They're trying to lock on with a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Remodulate shields.
PARIS: Threshold in eight, seven, six.
TUVOK: They're locking on.
PARIS: Five.
SEVEN: I've repolarised the shields. It's being deflected.
PARIS: Three, two.

[Bridge]

TORRES: They're through.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Delta Flyer. Report!
JANEWAY: We've got Seven, but there's a Borg vessel right behind us.
CHAKOTAY: Target the threshold perimeter. Photon torpedoes, full spread.
TORRES: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It should destabilise the matter stream and implode the conduit
for at least a light year.
TORRES: Torpedoes locked.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY: Voyager, report.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We collapsed

[Bridge]

CHAKOTAY: the conduit. No sign of Borg activity.

[Delta Flyer]

JANEWAY: Clear us for docking. We're coming home.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Commander, I'm picking up Borg signatures. Lots of them.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TORRES: The conduit.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you collapsed it.
TORRES: So did I.
CHAKOTAY: Stand by weapons. Captain

[Delta Flyer]

CHAKOTAY [OC]: Raise shields. We've got company.

[Bridge]

TORRES: Here they come.

Captain's Log, Stardate 52619.2. We got another twenty thousand light
years out of the transwarp coil before it gave out. I figure we're a good
fifteen years closer to home.

[Cargo Bay two]

JANEWAY: I see you picked up some bad habits.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The Doctor told you to regenerate for at least two days. You're
violating a direct medical command.
SEVEN: I will comply when my work is completed.
JANEWAY: Borg tactical data?
SEVEN: During my time at Unimatrix one I acquired a vast amount of
knowledge. It may prove useful in our future encounters with the Borg. I
am downloading it into Voyager's database. The Borg believed I was
unique, that I understood humanity. They were obviously mistaken.
JANEWAY: How so?
SEVEN: I betrayed the crew of Voyager, threatened you with assimilation.
I did not expect you to return for me.
JANEWAY: Looks like you still have a few things to learn. Time to
regenerate.
SEVEN: When I am finished.
JANEWAY: No, now. That's an order.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Sweet dreams.



Star Trek ｮ is copyright of CBS Studios INC. The Star Trek web pages on
this site are for educational and entertainment purposes only. All other copyrights are the property of
their respective holders.

